pali_english - 律藏/pli-tv-bi-pm
Generated: 2026-06-12T11:05:09.455119+00:00
Group: 律藏/pli-tv-bi-pm
Texts: 1

================================================================================
pli-tv-bi-pm
Root: root/pli/ms/vinaya/pli-tv-bi-pm_root-pli-ms.json

English translation sources:
  - brahmali [published]: translation/en/brahmali/vinaya/pli-tv-bi-pm_translation-en-brahmali.json
  - pasanna [origin/unpublished]: translation/en/pasanna/vinaya/pli-tv-bi-pm_translation-en-pasanna.json

pli-tv-bi-pm:0.1
Pali: Dvemātikāpāḷi 
English: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:0.2
Pali: Bhikkhunīpātimokkhapāḷi 
English (brahmali, published): The nuns’ rules 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Nuns’ rules 

pli-tv-bi-pm:1.0
Pali: Pubbakaraṇaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Preliminaries 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Preliminaries 

pli-tv-bi-pm:1.1
Pali: Sammajjanī padīpo ca, udakaṁ āsanena ca; 
English (brahmali, published): Sweeping and lamps, setting up of water and seats; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Sweeping, lamps, setting up of water and seats; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:1.2
Pali: Uposathassa etāni, “pubbakaraṇa”nti vuccati. 
English (brahmali, published): these are to be done before the observance-day ceremony. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): these are to be done before the observance-day ceremony. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:2.0
Pali: Pubbakiccaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Preliminary duties 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Preliminary Duties 

pli-tv-bi-pm:2.1
Pali: Chanda, pārisuddhi, utukkhānaṁ, bhikkhunigaṇanā ca ovādo; 
English (brahmali, published): Consent, purity, knowing the season, and counting the nuns, instruction; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Consent, purity, knowing the season, counting the nuns and Instruction; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:2.2
Pali: Uposathassa etāni, “pubbakicca”nti vuccati. 
English (brahmali, published): these are called the preliminary duties of the observance-day ceremony. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): these are the preliminary duties of the observance-day ceremony. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:3.0
Pali: Pattakallaaṅgā 
English (brahmali, published): The factors of readiness 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The appropriate time 

pli-tv-bi-pm:3.1
Pali: Uposatho, yāvatikā ca bhikkhunī kammappattā; 
English (brahmali, published): It is the observance day, all the nuns who should be present have arrived, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The observance-day, all the nuns have arrived for the procedure; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:3.2
Pali: Sabhāgāpattiyo ca na vijjanti; 
English (brahmali, published): there are no shared offenses, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): none have shared offenses 

pli-tv-bi-pm:3.3
Pali: Vajjanīyā ca puggalā tasmiṁ na honti, “pattakalla”nti vuccati. 
English (brahmali, published): and there is no-one there who should not be present. This is called readiness. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and there are no persons to be avoided. This is called the appropriate time. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:4.1
Pali: Pubbakaraṇapubbakiccāni samāpetvā desitāpattikassa samaggassa bhikkhunisaṅghassa anumatiyā pātimokkhaṁ uddisituṁ ārādhanaṁ karoma. 
English (brahmali, published): “Having completed the duties to be done beforehand and the preliminary duties, with the assent of the nuns’ community, one and all, with offenses confessed, I invite the recitation of the Monastic Code.” 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Having complete the duties to be done beforehand and the preliminary duties, with the assent of the Nuns’ community, one and all, with offences confessed, I invite the recitation of the Monastic Code. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:5.0
Pali: Nidānuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the introduction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Introduction 

pli-tv-bi-pm:5.1
Pali: Suṇātu me ayye saṅgho. 
English (brahmali, published): “Please, venerables, I ask the Sangha to listen. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Please, Venerables, I ask the Sangha to listen. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:5.2
Pali: Ajjuposatho pannaraso, 
English (brahmali, published): Today is the observance day, the fifteenth. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Today is the observance day, the fifteenth. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:5.3
Pali: yadi saṅghassa pattakallaṁ, saṅgho uposathaṁ kareyya, pātimokkhaṁ uddiseyya. 
English (brahmali, published): If the Sangha is ready, it should do the observance-day ceremony, it should recite the Monastic Code. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If it seems appropriate to the Sangha, it should do the observance-day ceremony, it should recite the Monastic Code. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.1
Pali: Kiṁ saṅghassa pubbakiccaṁ? 
English (brahmali, published): What is the preliminary duty of the Sangha? 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): What is the preliminary duty of the Sangha? 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.2
Pali: Pārisuddhiṁ ayyāyo ārocetha, 
English (brahmali, published): The venerables should declare their purity. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The venerables should declare their purity. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.3
Pali: pātimokkhaṁ uddisissāmi, 
English (brahmali, published): I will recite the Monastic Code. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will recite the Monastic Code. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.4
Pali: taṁ sabbāva santā sādhukaṁ suṇoma manasi karoma. 
English (brahmali, published): Everyone present should listen to it and attend carefully. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Everyone present should listen to it and attend carefully. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.5
Pali: Yassā siyā āpatti, sā āvikareyya, 
English (brahmali, published): Anyone who has committed an offense should reveal it. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Anyone who has committed an offense should reveal it. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.6
Pali: asantiyā āpattiyā tuṇhī bhavitabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If you haven’t committed any offense, you should remain silent. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If you haven’t committed any offense, you should remain silent. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.7
Pali: tuṇhībhāvena kho panāyyāyo, “parisuddhā”ti vedissāmi. 
English (brahmali, published): If you are silent, I will regard you as pure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If you are silent, I will regard you as pure. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.8
Pali: Yathā kho pana paccekapuṭṭhassā veyyākaraṇaṁ hoti, evamevaṁ evarūpāya parisāya yāvatatiyaṁ anusāvitaṁ hoti. 
English (brahmali, published): Just as one responds when asked individually, so too, an announcement is made three times in this kind of gathering. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Just as one responds when asked individually, so too, an announcement is made three times in this kind of gathering. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.9
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī yāvatatiyaṁ anusāviyamāne saramānā santiṁ āpattiṁ nāvikareyya, sampajānamusāvādassā hoti. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun remembers an offense while the announcement is being made up to the third time, but doesn’t reveal it, she is lying in full awareness. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun remembers an offense while the announcement is being made up to the third time, but doesn’t reveal it, she is lying in full awareness. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.10
Pali: Sampajānamusāvādo kho panāyyāyo, antarāyiko dhammo vutto bhagavatā, 
English (brahmali, published): Lying in full awareness is called an obstacle by the Buddha. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Lying in full awareness is called an obstacle by the Buddha. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.11
Pali: tasmā saramānāya bhikkhuniyā āpannāya visuddhāpekkhāya santī āpatti āvikātabbā, 
English (brahmali, published): A nun who remembers an offense and is seeking purification should therefore reveal it. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A nun who remembers an offense and is seeking purification should therefore reveal it. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:6.12
Pali: āvikatā hissā phāsu hoti. 
English (brahmali, published): When it’s revealed, she will be at ease. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When it’s revealed, she will be at ease. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:7.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhaṁ kho, ayyāyo, nidānaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the introduction has been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the introduction has been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:7.2
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:7.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:7.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:7.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:7.6
Pali: Nidānaṁ niṭṭhitaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): The introduction is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The introduction is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:8.0
Pali: Pārājikuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the rules on expulsion 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Expulsion 

pli-tv-bi-pm:8.1
Pali: Tatrime aṭṭha pārājikā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): These eight rules on expulsion come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these eight rules on expulsion come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:9.0
Pali: Pārājika 1. Methunadhammasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 1: sexual intercourse 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 1. Sexual Intercourse 

pli-tv-bi-pm:9.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī chandaso methunaṁ dhammaṁ paṭiseveyya, antamaso tiracchānagatenapi, pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun willingly has sexual intercourse, even with a male animal, she is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun willingly has sexual intercourse, even with a male animal, she is expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:10.0
Pali: Pārājika 2. Adinnādānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 2: stealing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 2. Theft 

pli-tv-bi-pm:10.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī gāmā vā araññā vā adinnaṁ theyyasaṅkhātaṁ ādiyeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, intending to steal, takes from an inhabited area or from the wilderness what has not been given to her—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, intending to steal, takes from an inhabited area or from the wilderness what has not been given to her—

pli-tv-bi-pm:10.2
Pali: yathārūpe adinnādāne rājāno coraṁ gahetvā haneyyuṁ vā bandheyyuṁ vā pabbājeyyuṁ vā corāsi bālāsi mūḷhāsi thenāsīti, tathārūpaṁ bhikkhunī adinnaṁ ādiyamānā 
English (brahmali, published): the sort of stealing for which kings, having caught a thief, would beat, imprison, or banish her, saying, ‘You’re a bandit, you’re a fool, you’ve gone astray, you’re a thief’—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the sort of stealing for which kings, having caught a thief, would beat, imprison, or banish her, saying, ‘You’re a bandit, you’re a fool, you’ve gone astray, you’re a thief’—

pli-tv-bi-pm:10.3
Pali: ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā. 
English (brahmali, published): she too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): she is expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:11.0
Pali: Pārājika 3. Manussaviggahasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 3: killing a human being 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 3. Murder 

pli-tv-bi-pm:11.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sañcicca manussaviggahaṁ jīvitā voropeyya, satthahārakaṁ vāssa pariyeseyya, maraṇavaṇṇaṁ vā saṁvaṇṇeyya, maraṇāya vā samādapeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun intentionally kills a human being or seeks an instrument of death for them or praises death or incites someone to die, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun intentionally kills a human being or seeks an instrument of death for her or praises death or incites someone to die, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:11.2
Pali: “ambho purisa, kiṁ tuyhiminā pāpakena dujjīvitena, mataṁ te jīvitā seyyo”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘My friend, what’s the point of this miserable and difficult life? Death is better for you than life!’—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘My friend, what’s the point of this miserable and difficult life? Death is better for you than life!’—

pli-tv-bi-pm:11.3
Pali: iti cittamanā cittasaṅkappā anekapariyāyena maraṇavaṇṇaṁ vā saṁvaṇṇeyya, maraṇāya vā samādapeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): thinking and intending thus, if she praises death in many ways or incites someone to die—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): thinking and intending thus, if she praises death in many ways or incites someone to die—

pli-tv-bi-pm:11.4
Pali: ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā. 
English (brahmali, published): she too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): she too is expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:12.0
Pali: Pārājika 4. Uttarimanussadhammasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 4: falsely claiming a superhuman quality 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 3. Laying False Claim to Superhuman Attainments 

pli-tv-bi-pm:12.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anabhijānaṁ uttarimanussadhammaṁ attupanāyikaṁ alamariyañāṇadassanaṁ samudācareyya, “iti jānāmi, iti passāmī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun falsely claims for herself a superhuman quality, a knowledge and vision worthy of the noble ones, saying, ‘This I know, this I see,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun falsely claims for herself a superhuman quality, a knowledge and vision worthy of the noble ones, saying, ‘This I know, this I see,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:12.2
Pali: tato aparena samayena samanuggāhīyamānā vā asamanuggāhīyamānā vā āpannā visuddhāpekkhā evaṁ vadeyya, “ajānamevaṁ, ayye, avacaṁ jānāmi, apassaṁ passāmi, tucchaṁ musā vilapi”nti, 
English (brahmali, published): but after some time—whether she is questioned or not, but having committed the offense and seeking purification—should say: ‘Not knowing I said that I know, not seeing that I see; what I said was empty and false,’ then, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): but after some time—whether she is questioned or not, but having committed the offense and seeking purification—should say: ‘Not knowing I said that I know, not seeing that I see; what I said was empty and false,’ then, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:12.3
Pali: aññatra adhimānā, 
English (brahmali, published): except if it is due to overestimation, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): except if it is due to overestimation, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:12.4
Pali: ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā. 
English (brahmali, published): she too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): she too is expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:13.0
Pali: Pārājika 5. Ubbhajāṇumaṇḍalikāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 5: physical contact with a man 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 5. Above the Knees 

pli-tv-bi-pm:13.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī avassutā avassutassa purisapuggalassa, adhakkhakaṁ ubbhajāṇumaṇḍalaṁ āmasanaṁ vā parāmasanaṁ vā gahaṇaṁ vā chupanaṁ vā paṭipīḷanaṁ vā sādiyeyya, ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā ubbhajāṇumaṇḍalikā. 
English (brahmali, published): If a lustful nun consents to a lustful man making physical contact with her, to touching her, to taking hold of her, to contacting her, or to squeezing her, anywhere below the collar bone but above the knees, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule on above the knees. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a lustful nun consents to a lustful man making physical contact with her, to touching her, to taking hold of her, to contacting her, or to squeezing her, anywhere below the collar bone but above the knees, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule on above the knees. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:14.0
Pali: Pārājika 6. Vajjappaṭicchādikāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 6: concealing an expulsion offense 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 6. Conceal Offenses 

pli-tv-bi-pm:14.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ pārājikaṁ dhammaṁ ajjhāpannaṁ bhikkhuniṁ nevattanā paṭicodeyya, na gaṇassa āroceyya, yadā ca sā ṭhitā vā assa cutā vā nāsitā vā avassaṭā vā, sā pacchā evaṁ vadeyya: “pubbevāhaṁ, ayye, aññāsiṁ etaṁ bhikkhuniṁ ‘evarūpā ca evarūpā ca sā bhaginī’ti, no ca kho attanā paṭicodessaṁ, na gaṇassa ārocessa”nti, ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā vajjappaṭicchādikā. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun knows that a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion, but she neither confronts her herself nor tells the community, and afterward—whether that nun remains or has died or has been expelled or has converted—she says, ‘Venerables, although I previously knew that this nun was like this, I thought, “I will neither confront her myself nor tell the community,”’ she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule on those who conceal offenses. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun knows that a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion, but she neither confronts her herself nor tells a group of nuns, and afterward—whether that nun remains or has died or has been expelled or has converted—she says, ‘Venerables, although I previously knew that this nun was like this, I thought, I will neither confront her myself nor tell a group of nuns, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule on those who conceal offenses. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:15.0
Pali: Pārājika 7. Ukkhittānuvattikāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 7: siding with an ejected monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 7. Siding with One Ejected 

pli-tv-bi-pm:15.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī samaggena saṅghena ukkhittaṁ bhikkhuṁ dhammena vinayena satthusāsanena anādaraṁ appaṭikāraṁ akatasahāyaṁ tamanuvatteyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun takes sides with a monk who has been ejected by a unanimous Sangha—in accordance with the Teaching, the Monastic Law, and the Teacher’s instruction—and who is disrespectful, who has not made amends, and who has not made friends, the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun takes sides with a monk who has been ejected by a unanimous Sangha—in accordance with the rule, the Monastic Law, and the Teacher’s instruction—and who is disrespectful, who has not made amends, and who has not made friends, the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:15.2
Pali: “eso kho, ayye, bhikkhu samaggena saṅghena ukkhitto, dhammena vinayena satthusāsanena anādaro appaṭikāro akatasahāyo, māyye, etaṁ bhikkhuṁ anuvattī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, this monk has been ejected by a unanimous Sangha in accordance with the Teaching, the Monastic Law, and the Teacher’s instruction. He’s disrespectful, hasn’t made amends, and hasn’t made friends. Venerable, don’t take sides with this monk.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, this monk has been ejected by a unanimous Sangha in accordance with the rule, the Monastic Law, and the Teacher’s instruction. He’s disrespectful, hasn’t made amends, and hasn’t made friends. Venerable, don’t take sides with this monk.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:15.3
Pali: evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:15.4
Pali: yāvatatiyaṁ ce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:15.5
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā ukkhittānuvattikā. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule on taking sides with one who has been ejected. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  If she does not stop, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule on taking sides with one who has been ejected. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:16.0
Pali: Pārājika 8. Aṭṭhavatthukāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 8: behaving inappropriately in eight ways 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 8. Eight Factors 

pli-tv-bi-pm:16.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī avassutā avassutassa purisapuggalassa hatthaggahaṇaṁ vā sādiyeyya, saṅghāṭikaṇṇaggahaṇaṁ vā sādiyeyya, santiṭṭheyya vā, sallapeyya vā, saṅketaṁ vā gaccheyya, purisassa vā abbhāgamanaṁ sādiyeyya, channaṁ vā anupaviseyya, kāyaṁ vā tadatthāya upasaṁhareyya etassa asaddhammassa paṭisevanatthāya, ayampi pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā aṭṭhavatthukā. 
English (brahmali, published): If, for the purpose of indulging in inappropriate sexual conduct, a lustful nun consents to a lustful man holding her hand and the edge of her robe, and she stands with him and chats with him and goes to a rendezvous with him and consents to him coming to her and enters a covered place with him and disposes her body for him for that purpose, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule having eight parts. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, for the purpose of indulging in inappropriate sexual conduct, a lustful nun consents to a lustful man holding her hand and the edge of her robe, and she stands with him and chats with him and goes to an appointment with him and consents to him coming to her and enters a covered place with him and disposes her body for him for that purpose, she too is expelled and excluded from the community. The training rule having eight parts. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho, ayyāyo, aṭṭha pārājikā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the eight rules on expulsion have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the eight rules on expulsion have been recited. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.2
Pali: Yesaṁ bhikkhunī aññataraṁ vā aññataraṁ vā āpajjitvā na labhati bhikkhunīhi saddhiṁ saṁvāsaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun commits any one of them, she is no longer part of the community of nuns. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun commits any one of them, she is no longer part of the community of nuns. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.3
Pali: yathā pure, tathā pacchā, pārājikā hoti asaṁvāsā. 
English (brahmali, published): As before, so after: she’s expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): As before, so after: she’s expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.4
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.5
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.6
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.7
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:17.8
Pali: Pārājikaṁ niṭṭhitaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): The offenses entailing expulsion are finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The offenses entailing expulsion are finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:18.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the rules of suspension 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Suspension 

pli-tv-bi-pm:18.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyyāyo sattarasa saṅghādisesā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these seventeen rules on suspension come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these seventeen rules on suspension come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:19.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 1. Ussayavādikāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 1: taking legal action 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 1: Litigious 

pli-tv-bi-pm:19.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ussayavādikā vihareyya gahapatinā vā gahapatiputtena vā dāsena vā kammakārena vā antamaso samaṇaparibbājakenāpi, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun takes legal action against a householder or a householder’s offspring or a slave or a worker or even toward a monastic or a wanderer, then that nun has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun takes legal action against a householder or a householder’s offspring or a slave or a worker or even toward a monastic or a wanderer, then that nun has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:20.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 2. Corīvuṭṭhāpikāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 2: ordaining a criminal 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 2: Ordaining a Criminal 

pli-tv-bi-pm:20.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ coriṁ vajjhaṁ viditaṁ anapaloketvā rājānaṁ vā saṅghaṁ vā gaṇaṁ vā pūgaṁ vā seṇiṁ vā, aññatra kappā vuṭṭhāpeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, without getting permission from the king or the Sangha or a community or an association or a society, knowingly gives the full admission to a female criminal who is known as sentenced to death, then, except when it is allowable, that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, without getting permission from the king or the Sangha or a community or an association or a society, gives the full admission to a woman who she knows is a criminal and who is known as sentenced to death, then, except when it is allowable, that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:21.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 3. Ekagāmantaragamanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 3: being alone 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 3. Walking Alone to the Next Village 

pli-tv-bi-pm:21.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ekā vā gāmantaraṁ gaccheyya, ekā vā nadīpāraṁ gaccheyya, ekā vā rattiṁ vippavaseyya, ekā vā gaṇamhā ohiyeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun walks to the next inhabited area by herself or crosses a river by herself or spends the night apart by herself or lags behind her companions by herself, then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun walks to the next inhabited area by herself or crosses a river by herself or spends the night apart by herself or lags behind her companions by herself, then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:22.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 4. Ukkhittakaosāraṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 4: readmitting an ejected nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 4. Reinstating One Ejected 

pli-tv-bi-pm:22.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī samaggena saṅghena ukkhittaṁ bhikkhuniṁ dhammena vinayena satthusāsanena anapaloketvā kārakasaṅghaṁ, anaññāya gaṇassa chandaṁ osāreyya, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, without getting permission from the Sangha that did the legal procedure and without the consent of the community, readmits a nun who has been ejected by a unanimous Sangha in accordance with the Teaching and the Monastic Law and the Teacher’s instruction, then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, without getting permission from the Sangha that did the legal procedure and without the consent of the group, reinstates a nun who has been ejected by a unanimous Sangha in accordance with the rule and the Monastic Law and the Teacher’s instruction, then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:23.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 5. Bhojanapaṭiggahaṇapaṭhamasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 5: receiving food with lust 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 5: Receiving Food With Lust 

pli-tv-bi-pm:23.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī avassutā avassutassa purisapuggalassa hatthato khādanīyaṁ vā, bhojanīyaṁ vā sahatthā paṭiggahetvā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a lustful nun eats fresh or cooked food after receiving it directly from a lustful man, then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a lustful nun eats fresh or cooked food after receiving it directly from a lustful man, then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:24.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 6. Bhojanapaṭiggahaṇadutiyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 6: encouraging a nun to receive food from a man with lust 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 6: Encouraging Receiving Food From One With Lust 

pli-tv-bi-pm:24.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī evaṁ vadeyya: “kiṁ te, ayye, eso purisapuggalo karissati avassuto vā anavassuto vā, yato tvaṁ anavassutā, iṅgha, ayye, yaṁ te eso purisapuggalo deti khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā, taṁ tvaṁ sahatthā paṭiggahetvā khāda vā bhuñja vā”ti, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun says, ‘Venerable, what can this man do to you, whether he has lust or not, if you’re without? Go on, venerable, receive it with your own hands and then eat whatever fresh or cooked food he gives you,’ then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun says, ‘Venerable, what can this man do to you, whether he has lust or not, if you’re without? Go on, Venerable, receive it with your own hands and then eat whatever fresh or cooked food he gives you,’ then that nun too has committed an immediate offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:25.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 7. Sañcarittasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 7: matchmaking 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 7. Matchmaking 

pli-tv-bi-pm:25.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sañcarittaṁ samāpajjeyya itthiyā vā purisamatiṁ, purisassa vā itthimatiṁ, jāyattane vā jārattane vā antamaso taṅkhaṇikāyapi, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun acts as a matchmaker, conveying a man’s intention to a woman or a woman’s intention to a man, for marriage or for an affair, even if just a brief one, she commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun acts as a matchmaker, conveying a man’s intention to a woman or a woman’s intention to a man, for marriage or for an affair, even if just a brief one, she commits an offense entailing suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:26.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 8. Duṭṭhadosasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 8: making a groundless accusation out of anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 8: Making a Groundless Accusation Out of Anger 

pli-tv-bi-pm:26.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniṁ duṭṭhā dosā appatītā amūlakena pārājikena dhammena anuddhaṁseyya: “appeva nāma naṁ imamhā brahmacariyā cāveyya”nti, 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is angry and displeased groundlessly charges a nun with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make her leave the monastic life, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is angry and displeased groundlessly charges a nun with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make her leave the monastic life, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:26.2
Pali: tato aparena samayena samanuggāhīyamānā vā asa manuggāhīyamānā vā amūlakañceva taṁ adhikaraṇaṁ hoti, bhikkhunī ca dosaṁ patiṭṭhāti, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): and then after some time, whether she is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is groundless, and she admits to her ill will, she commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and then after some time, whether she is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is groundless, and she admits to her ill will, she commits an offense entailing suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:27.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 9. Aññabhāgiyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 9: making a groundless accusation out of anger, using a pretext 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 9: Making an Accusation Out of Anger on an Irrelevant Pretext 

pli-tv-bi-pm:27.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniṁ duṭṭhā dosā appatītā aññabhāgiyassa adhikaraṇassa kiñcidesaṁ lesamattaṁ upādāya pārājikena dhammena anuddhaṁseyya, “appeva nāma naṁ imamhā brahmacariyā cāveyya”nti, 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is angry and displeased, uses an unrelated legal issue as a pretext to charge a nun with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make her leave the monastic life, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is angry and displeased, uses an unrelated legal issue as a pretext to charge a nun with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make her leave the monastic life, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:27.2
Pali: tato aparena samayena samanuggāhīyamānā vā asamanuggāhīyamānā vā aññabhāgiyañceva taṁ adhikaraṇaṁ hoti. Kocideso lesamatto upādinno, bhikkhunī ca dosaṁ patiṭṭhāti, ayampi bhikkhunī paṭhamāpattikaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): and then after some time, whether she is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is unrelated and was used as a pretext, and she admits to her ill will, she commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and then after some time, whether she is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is unrelated and was used as pretext, and she admits to her ill will, she commits an offense entailing suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 10. Sikkhaṁpaccācikkhaṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 10: renouncing the training in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 10: Renouncing the Training 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī kupitā anattamanā evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun says in anger, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun says in anger, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.2
Pali: “buddhaṁ paccācikkhāmi dhammaṁ paccācikkhāmi, saṅghaṁ paccācikkhāmi, sikkhaṁ paccācikkhāmi, kinnumāva samaṇiyo yā samaṇiyo sakyadhītaro, santaññāpi samaṇiyo lajjiniyo kukkuccikā sikkhākāmā, tāsāhaṁ santike brahmacariyaṁ carissāmī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I renounce the Buddha, I renounce the Teaching, I renounce the Sangha, I renounce the training! The Sakyan daughters are not the only monastics. There are other monastics who have a sense of conscience, who are afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the training. I’ll practice the spiritual life with them,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I renounce the Buddha, I renounce the Teaching, I renounce the Sangha, I renounce the training! The Sakyan daughters are not the only monastics. There are other monastics who have a sense of conscience, who are afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the training. I’ll practice the spiritual life with them,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.3
Pali: Sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.4
Pali: “māyye kupitā anattamanā evaṁ avaca ‘buddhaṁ paccācikkhāmi, dhammaṁ paccācikkhāmi, saṅghaṁ paccācikkhāmi, sikkhaṁ paccācikkhāmi, kinnumāva samaṇiyo yā samaṇiyo sakyadhītaro, santaññāpi samaṇiyo lajjiniyo kukkuccikā sikkhākāmā, tāsāhaṁ santike brahmacariyaṁ carissāmī’ti, abhiramāyye, svākkhāto dhammo, cara brahmacariyaṁ sammā dukkhassa antakiriyāyā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, don’t say such things in anger, “I renounce the Buddha, I renounce the Teaching, I renounce the Sangha, I renounce the training! The Sakyan daughters are not the only monastics. There are other monastics who have a sense of conscience, who are afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the training. I’ll practice the spiritual life with them.” Take delight, venerable; the Teaching is well proclaimed. Practice the spiritual life for the complete ending of suffering.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, don’t say such things in anger, I renounce the Buddha, I renounce the Teaching, I renounce the Sangha, I renounce the training! The Sakyan daughters are not the only monastics. There are other monastics who have a sense of conscience, who are afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the training. I’ll practice the spiritual life with them.’ Take delight, Venerable; the Teaching is well proclaimed. Practice the spiritual life for the complete ending of suffering.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.5
Pali: evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.6
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:28.7
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 11. Adhikaraṇakupitasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 11: accusing nuns of acting from bias 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 11: Getting Angry Over a Legal Issue 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī kismiñcideva adhikaraṇe paccākatā kupitā anattamanā evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is angry because she has lost a legal case, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is angry because a legal issue has been decided against her, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.2
Pali: “chandagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, dosagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, mohagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, bhayagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo”ti, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): ‘The nuns are acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear,’ then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘The nuns are acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear,’  then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.3
Pali: “māyye, kismiñcideva adhikaraṇe paccākatā kupitā anattamanā evaṁ avaca ‘chandagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, dosagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, mohagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, bhayagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo’ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, just because you’re angry that you’ve lost a legal case, don’t say, “The nuns are acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear.” 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, just because you’re angry that a legal issue has been decided against you, don’t say, ‘The nuns are acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.4
Pali: ayyā kho chandāpi gaccheyya, dosāpi gaccheyya, mohāpi gaccheyya, bhayāpi gaccheyyā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): Perhaps it’s you who are acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Perhaps it’s you who are acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.5
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.6
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:29.7
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 12. Pāpasamācārapaṭhamasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 12: inappropriate socializing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 12: Socializing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.1
Pali: Bhikkhuniyo paneva saṁsaṭṭhā viharanti pāpācārā pāpasaddā pāpasilokā bhikkhunisaṅghassa vihesikā aññamaññissā vajjappaṭicchādikā, 
English (brahmali, published): If nuns socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If nuns socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.2
Pali: tā bhikkhuniyo bhikkhunīhi evamassu vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct them like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct them like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.3
Pali: “bhaginiyo kho saṁsaṭṭhā viharanti pāpācārā pāpasaddā pāpasilokā bhikkhunisaṅghassa vihesikā aññamaññissā vajjappaṭicchādikā, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Sisters, you socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Sisters, you socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.4
Pali: viviccathāyye, vivekaññeva bhaginīnaṁ saṅgho vaṇṇetī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Be secluded, venerables. The Sangha praises seclusion for the sisters.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Be secluded, Venerables. The Sangha praises seclusion for the Sisters.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.5
Pali: evañca tā bhikkhuniyo bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyyuṁ, tā bhikkhuniyo bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If those nuns continue as before, the nuns should press them up to three times to make them stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If those nuns continues as before, the nuns should press them up to three times to make them stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.6
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyyuṁ, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If they then stop, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If they then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:30.7
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyyuṁ, imāpi bhikkhuniyo yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If they do not stop, then after the third announcement those nuns too have committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If they do not stop, then after the third announcement those nuns too have committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 13. Pāpasamācāradutiyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 13: encouraging inappropriate socializing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 13: Siding With One Socializing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun says, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.2
Pali: “saṁsaṭṭhāva, ayye, tumhe viharatha, mā tumhe nānā viharittha, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerables, you should socialize. Don’t live separately. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerables, you should socialize. Don’t live separately. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.3
Pali: santi saṅghe aññāpi bhikkhuniyo evācārā evaṁsaddā evaṁsilokā bhikkhunisaṅghassa vihesikā aññamaññissā vajjappaṭicchādikā, tā saṅgho na kiñci āha 
English (brahmali, published): There are other nuns in the Sangha who have such behavior, reputation, and notoriety, and who harass the Sangha of nuns and hide each other’s offenses. The Sangha says nothing to them. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): There are other nuns in the Sangha who have such behavior, reputation, and notoriety, and who harass the Sangha of nuns and hide each other’s offenses. The Sangha says nothing to them. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.4
Pali: tumhaññeva saṅgho uññāya paribhavena akkhantiyā vebhassiyā dubbalyā evamāha: ‘bhaginiyo kho saṁsaṭṭhā viharanti pāpācārā pāpasaddā pāpasilokā bhikkhunisaṅghassa vihesikā aññamaññissā vajjappaṭicchādikā, viviccathāyye, vivekaññeva bhaginīnaṁ saṅgho vaṇṇetī”’ti, 
English (brahmali, published): It’s because of disrespect, contempt, impatience, and slander, and because you are weak that the Sangha says to you, “Sisters, you socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses. Be secluded, venerables. The Sangha praises seclusion for the sisters,”’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  It’s because of disrespect, contempt, impatience, and slander, and because you are weak that the Sangha says to you, ‘Sisters, you socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses. Be secluded, Venerables. The Sangha praises seclusion for the Sisters, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.5
Pali: sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.6
Pali: “māyye, evaṁ avaca, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, don’t say such things: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, don’t say such things: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.7
Pali: saṁsaṭṭhāva ayye tumhe viharatha, mā tumhe nānā viharittha, 
English (brahmali, published): “Venerables, you should socialize. Don’t live separately. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerables, you should socialize. Don’t live separately. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.8
Pali: santi saṅghe aññāpi bhikkhuniyo evācārā evaṁsaddā evaṁsilokā bhikkhunisaṅghassa vihesikā aññamaññissā vajjappaṭicchādikā, tā saṅgho na kiñci āha, 
English (brahmali, published): There are other nuns in the Sangha who have such behavior, reputation, and notoriety, and who harass the Sangha of nuns and hide each other’s offenses. The Sangha says nothing to them. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): There are other nuns in the Sangha who have such behavior, reputation, and notoriety, and who harass the Sangha of nuns and hide each other’s offenses. The Sangha says nothing to them. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.9
Pali: tumhaññeva saṅgho uññāya paribhavena akkhantiyā vebhassiyā dubbalyā evamāha: ‘bhaginiyo kho saṁsaṭṭhā viharanti pāpācārā pāpasaddā pāpasilokā bhikkhunisaṅghassa vihesikā aññamaññissā vajjappaṭicchādikā, viviccathāyye, vivekaññeva bhaginīnaṁ saṅgho vaṇṇetī”’ti, 
English (brahmali, published): It’s because of disrespect, contempt, impatience, and slander, and because you are weak that the Sangha says to you, ‘Sisters, you socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses. Be secluded, venerables. The Sangha praises seclusion for the sisters,’”’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  It’s because of disrespect, contempt, impatience, and slander, and because you are weak that the Sangha says to you, ‘Sisters, you socialize, behave badly, have a bad reputation, are notorious, harass the Sangha of nuns, and hide each other’s offenses. Be secluded, Venerables. The Sangha praises seclusion for the Sisters, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.10
Pali: evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.11
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:31.12
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 14. Saṅghabhedakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 14: causing a schism in the Sangha 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 14. Causing Schism in the Saṅgha 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī samaggassa saṅghassa bhedāya parakkameyya, bhedanasaṁvattanikaṁ vā adhikaraṇaṁ samādāya paggayha tiṭṭheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun pursues schism in a united Sangha or persists in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism, the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun pursues schism in a united Sangha or persists in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism, the nuns should correct her like this, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.2
Pali: “māyyā, samaggassa saṅghassa bhedāya parakkami, bhedanasaṁvattanikaṁ vā adhikaraṇaṁ samādāya paggayha aṭṭhāsi, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, don’t pursue schism in the united Sangha or persist in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, don’t pursue schism in the united Sangha or persist in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.3
Pali: sametāyyā, saṅghena, samaggo hi saṅgho sammodamāno avivadamāno ekuddeso phāsu viharatī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.4
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.5
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:32.6
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 15. Bhedānuvattakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 15: siding with a schismatic 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 15: Following a Schismatic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.1
Pali: Tassāyeva kho pana bhikkhuniyā bhikkhuniyo honti anuvattikā vaggavādikā ekā vā dve vā tisso vā, tā evaṁ vadeyyuṁ: 
English (brahmali, published): That nun may have one, two, or three nuns who side with her and support her, and they may say, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): That nun may have one, two, or three nuns who side with her and support her, and they may say, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.2
Pali: “māyyāyo, etaṁ bhikkhuniṁ kiñci avacuttha 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerables, don’t correct this nun. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, don’t correct this nun. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.3
Pali: dhammavādinī cesā bhikkhunī, vinayavādinī cesā bhikkhunī, 
English (brahmali, published): She speaks in accordance with the Teaching and the training. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): She speaks in accordance with the Teaching and the training. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.4
Pali: amhākañcesā bhikkhunī chandañca ruciñca ādāya voharati, jānāti, no bhāsati, amhākampetaṁ khamatī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): And she speaks with our consent and approval. She knows about us and speaks for us, and we approve of this.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And she speaks with our consent and approval. She knows about us and speaks for us, and we approve of this.” 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.5
Pali: tā bhikkhuniyo bhikkhunīhi evamassu vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): The nuns should correct those nuns like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct those nuns like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.6
Pali: “māyyāyo, evaṁ avacuttha, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, venerables, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerables, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.7
Pali: na cesā bhikkhunī dhammavādinī, na cesā bhikkhunī vinayavādinī, 
English (brahmali, published): this nun speaks contrary to the Teaching and the training. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): this nun speaks contrary to the Teaching and the training. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.8
Pali: māyyānampi saṅghabhedo ruccittha, 
English (brahmali, published): And don’t consent to schism in the Sangha. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And don’t consent to schism in the Sangha. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.9
Pali: sametāyyānaṁ saṅghena, samaggo hi saṅgho sammodamāno avivadamāno ekuddeso phāsu viharatī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.10
Pali: evañca tā bhikkhuniyo bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyyuṁ, tā bhikkhuniyo bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If those nuns continue as before, the nuns should press them up to three times to make them stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If those nuns continues as before, the nuns should press them up to three times to make them stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.11
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyyuṁ. Iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If they then stop, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If they then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:33.12
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyyuṁ, imāpi bhikkhuniyo yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If they do not stop, then after the third announcement those nuns too have committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If they do not stop, then after the third announcement those nuns too have committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 16. Dubbacasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 16: being difficult to correct 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 16: Difficult to Correct 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.1
Pali: Bhikkhunī paneva dubbacajātikā hoti uddesapariyāpannesu sikkhāpadesu bhikkhunīhi sahadhammikaṁ vuccamānā attānaṁ avacanīyaṁ karoti: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is difficult to correct, and she makes herself incorrigible when legitimately corrected by the nuns concerning the training rules that are recited, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is difficult to correct, and she makes herself incorrigible when legitimately corrected by the nuns concerning the training rules that are recited, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.2
Pali: “mā maṁ ayyāyo kiñci avacuttha kalyāṇaṁ vā pāpakaṁ vā, ahampāyyāyo, na kiñci vakkhāmi kalyāṇaṁ vā pāpakaṁ vā, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerables, don’t say anything to me, either good or bad, and I won’t say anything to you, either good or bad. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerables, don’t say anything to me, either good or bad, and I won’t say anything to you, either good or bad. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.3
Pali: viramathāyyāyo, mama vacanāyā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Please refrain from correcting me,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Please refrain from correcting me,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.4
Pali: sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.5
Pali: “māyyā, attānaṁ avacanīyaṁ akāsi, vacanīyameva, ayyā, attānaṁ karotu, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Be easy to correct, venerable, not incorrigible. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Be easy to correct, Venerable, not incorrigible. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.6
Pali: ayyāpi bhikkhuniyo vadatu sahadhammena, bhikkhuniyopi ayyaṁ vakkhanti sahadhammena, 
English (brahmali, published): And please give legitimate correction to the nuns, and the nuns will do the same to you. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And please give legitimate correction to the nuns, and the nuns will do the same to you. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.7
Pali: evaṁ saṁvaddhā hi tassa bhagavato parisā yadidaṁ aññamaññavacanena aññamaññavuṭṭhāpanenā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): For it’s in this way that the Buddha’s community has grown, that is, through mutual correction and mutual clearing of offenses.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): For it’s in this way that the Buddha’s community has grown, that is, through mutual correction and mutual clearing of offenses.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.8
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.9
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:34.10
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 17. Kuladūsakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 17: being a corrupter of families 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 17: Corrupters of Families 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.1
Pali: Bhikkhunī paneva aññataraṁ gāmaṁ vā nigamaṁ vā upanissāya viharati kuladūsikā pāpasamācārā, tassā kho pāpakā samācārā dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, kulāni ca tāya duṭṭhāni dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who lives supported by a village or town is a corrupter of families and badly behaved, and her bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by her have been seen and heard about, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who lives supported by a village or town is a corrupter of families and badly behaved, and her bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by her have been seen and heard about, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.2
Pali: sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.3
Pali: “ayyā, kho kuladūsikā pāpasamācārā, ayyāya kho pāpakā samācārā dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, kulāni cāyyāya, duṭṭhāni dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, pakkamatāyyā imamhā āvāsā, alaṁ te idha vāsenā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.4
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tā bhikkhuniyo evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If she replies, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she replies, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.5
Pali: “chandagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, dosagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, mohagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, bhayagāminiyo ca bhikkhuniyo, tādisikāya āpattiyā ekaccaṁ pabbājenti ekaccaṁ na pabbājentī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘You’re acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear. Because of this sort of offense, you only banish some, but not others,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘You’re acting out of desire, ill will, confusion, and fear. Because of this sort of offense, you only banish some, but not others,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.6
Pali: sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.7
Pali: “māyyā, evaṁ avaca, na ca bhikkhuniyo chandagāminiyo, na ca bhikkhuniyo dosagāminiyo , na ca bhikkhuniyo mohagāminiyo, na ca bhikkhuniyo bhayagāminiyo, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, venerable, the nuns are not acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerable, the nuns are not acting out of desire, ill will, confusion, and fear. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.8
Pali: ayyā kho kuladūsikā pāpasamācārā, ayyāya kho pāpakā samācārā dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, kulāni cāyyāya duṭṭhāni dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, pakkamatāyyā, imamhā āvāsā alaṁ te idha vāsenā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.9
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.10
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:35.11
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyya, ayampi bhikkhunī yāvatatiyakaṁ dhammaṁ āpannā nissāraṇīyaṁ saṅghādisesaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, then after the third announcement that nun too has committed an offense entailing sending away and suspension. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho ayyāyo sattarasa saṅghādisesā dhammā nava paṭhamāpattikā, aṭṭha yāvatatiyakā, 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the seventeen rules on suspension have been recited, nine being immediate offenses, eight after the third announcement. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, the seventeen rules on suspension have been recited, nine being immediate offenses, eight after the third announcement. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.2
Pali: yesaṁ bhikkhunī aññataraṁ vā aññataraṁ vā āpajjati, tāya bhikkhuniyā ubhatosaṅghe pakkhamānattaṁ caritabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun commits any one of them, she must undertake the trial period for a half-month toward both Sanghas. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun commits any one of them, she is to must undertake a trial period for a half-month toward both Sanghas. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.3
Pali: Ciṇṇamānattā bhikkhunī yattha siyā vīsatigaṇo bhikkhunisaṅgho, tattha sā bhikkhunī abbhetabbā. 
English (brahmali, published): When this is completed, she is to be rehabilitated wherever there is a sangha of at least twenty nuns. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When this is completed, she is to be rehabilitated wherever there is a sangha of at least twenty nuns. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.4
Pali: Ekāyapi ce ūno vīsatigaṇo bhikkhunisaṅgho taṁ bhikkhuniṁ abbheyya, sā ca bhikkhunī anabbhitā, tā ca bhikkhuniyo gārayhā, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun is rehabilitated by a sangha of nuns of even one less than twenty, that nun is not rehabilitated and those nuns are at fault. This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun is rehabilitated by a sangha of nuns of even one less than twenty, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.5
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.6
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.7
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.8
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:36.9
Pali: Saṅghādiseso niṭṭhito. 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on offenses entailing suspension is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The chapter on offenses entailing suspension is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:37.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiyā 
English (brahmali, published): The rules of relinquishment and confession 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Relinquishment With Confession 

pli-tv-bi-pm:37.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyyāyo tiṁsa nissaggiyā pācittiyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these thirty rules on relinquishment and confession come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these thirty rules on relinquishment and confession come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:38.0.1
Pali: Pattavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on almsbowls 

pli-tv-bi-pm:38.0.2
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 1. Pattasannicayasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 1: collecting almsbowls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 1: Collecting Bowls 

pli-tv-bi-pm:38.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pattasannicayaṁ kareyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun collects almsbowls, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun collects almsbowls, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:39.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 2. Akālacīvarabhājanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 2: distributing out-of-season robe-cloth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 2: Sharing Out-of-Season Robe Cloth 

pli-tv-bi-pm:39.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī akālacīvaraṁ “kālacīvara”nti adhiṭṭhahitvā bhājāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun determines out-of-season robe-cloth as ‘in-season’, and then distributes it, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun determines out-of-season robe-cloth as In-season’, and then distributes it, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:40.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 3. Cīvaraparivattanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 3: taking back a traded robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 3: Swapping Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:40.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā saddhiṁ cīvaraṁ parivattetvā sā pacchā evaṁ vadeyya: “handāyye, tuyhaṁ cīvaraṁ, āhara metaṁ cīvaraṁ, yaṁ tuyhaṁ tuyhamevetaṁ, yaṁ mayhaṁ mayhamevetaṁ, āhara metaṁ cīvaraṁ, sakaṁ paccāharā”ti acchindeyya vā acchindāpeyya vā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun trades robes with a nun and then says, ‘Here’s your robe; give me that robe of mine. That which is yours is yours, and that which is mine is mine. Give me that, and take back what’s yours;’ and she just takes it or has it taken, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun swaps robes with a nun and then says, ‘Here’s your robe; give me that robe of mine. That which is yours is yours, and that which is mine is mine. Give me that, and take back what’s yours;’ and she just takes it or has it taken, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:41.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 4. Aññaviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 4: asking for something else 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 4: Asking for Something Else 

pli-tv-bi-pm:41.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññaṁ viññāpetvā aññaṁ viññāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun asks for one thing and then for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun asks for one thing and then for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:42.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 5. Aññacetāpana sikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 5: exchanging for something else 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 5: Exchanging for Something Else 

pli-tv-bi-pm:42.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññaṁ cetāpetvā aññaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gets one thing in exchange and then something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gets one thing in exchange and then something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:43.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 6. Paṭhamasaṅghikacetāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 6: exchanging designated Sangha property 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 6: Exchanging Saṅgha Property 

pli-tv-bi-pm:43.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññadatthikena parikkhārena aññuddisikena saṅghikena aññaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a requisite belonging to the Sangha is designated for a specific purpose, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a requisite belonging to the Sangha is designated for a specific purpose, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:44.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 7. Dutiyasaṅghikacetāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 7: exchanging designated Sangha property that was asked for 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 7: Exchanging Saṅgha Property (2nd) 

pli-tv-bi-pm:44.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññadatthikena parikkhārena aññuddisikena saṅghikena saññācikena aññaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a requisite belonging to the Sangha is designated for a specific purpose and was asked for, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a requisite belonging to the Sangha is designated for a specific purpose and was asked for, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:45.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 8. Paṭhamagaṇikacetāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 8: exchanging designated collective property 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 8: Exchanging Group Property 

pli-tv-bi-pm:45.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññadatthikena parikkhārena aññuddisikena mahājanikena aññaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a collective requisite is designated for a specific purpose, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a collective requisite is designated for a specific purpose, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:46.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 9. Dutiyagaṇikacetāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 9: exchanging designated collective property that was asked for 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 9: Exchanging Group Property (2nd) 

pli-tv-bi-pm:46.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññadatthikena parikkhārena aññuddisikena mahājanikena saññācikena aññaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a collective requisite is designated for a specific purpose and was asked for, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a collective requisite is designated for a specific purpose and was asked for, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:47.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 10. Puggalikacetāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 10: exchanging designated personal property that was asked for 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 10: Exchanging Personal Property 

pli-tv-bi-pm:47.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññadatthikena parikkhārena aññuddisikena puggalikena saññācikena aññaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a personal requisite is designated for a specific purpose and was asked for, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a personal requisite is designated for a specific purpose and was asked for, if a nun exchanges it for something else, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:47.2
Pali: Pattavaggo paṭhamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The first subchapter on almsbowls is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sub-chapter on bowls is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:48.0.1
Pali: Cīvaravaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:48.0.2
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 11. Garupāvuraṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 11: getting an expensive heavy cloak in exchange 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 11: Heavy Cloaks 

pli-tv-bi-pm:48.1
Pali: Garupāvuraṇaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā cetāpentiyā catukkaṁsaparamaṁ cetāpetabbaṁ. Tato ce uttari cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun carries out an exchange to get a heavy cloak, it is to be worth at most four <i lang='pi' translate='no'>kaṁsa</i> coins. If she gets one in exchange that is worth more than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun carries out an exchange to get a heavy cloak, it is to be worth at most four _kaṁsa_ coins. If she gets one in exchange that is worth more than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:49.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 12. Lahupāvuraṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 12: getting an expensive light cloak in exchange 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 12: Light Cloaks 

pli-tv-bi-pm:49.1
Pali: Lahupāvuraṇaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā cetāpentiyā aḍḍhateyyakaṁsaparamaṁ cetāpetabbaṁ. Tato ce uttari cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun carries out an exchange to get a light cloak, it is to be worth at most two-and-a-half <i lang='pi' translate='no'>kaṁsa</i> coins. If she gets one in exchange that is worth more than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun carries out an exchange to get a light cloak, it is to be worth at most two-and-a-half _kaṁsa_ coins. If she gets one in exchange that is worth more than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:50.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 13. Kathinasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 13: keeping extra robe-cloth beyond ten days 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 13: The Robe-Making Season 

pli-tv-bi-pm:50.1
Pali: Niṭṭhitacīvarasmiṁ bhikkhuniyā ubbhatasmiṁ kathine dasāhaparamaṁ atirekacīvaraṁ dhāretabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When her robe is finished and the robe season has ended, a nun should keep an extra robe for ten days at the most. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When her robe is finished and the robe season has ended, a nun should keep an extra robe for ten days at the most. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:50.2
Pali: Taṁ atikkāmentiyā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she keeps it longer than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she keeps it longer than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:51.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 14. Udositasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 14: staying apart from one’s robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 14: Staying Apart From Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:51.1
Pali: Niṭṭhitacīvarasmiṁ bhikkhuniyā ubbhatasmiṁ kathine ekarattampi ce bhikkhunī ticīvarena vippavaseyya, aññatra bhikkhunisammutiyā nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When her robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if a nun stays apart from her three robes even for a single day, except if the nuns have agreed, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When her robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if a nun stays apart from her three robes even for a single day, except if the nuns have agreed, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:52.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 15. Akālacīvarasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 15: keeping extra robe-cloth beyond a month 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 15: Out-of-Season Robe Cloth 

pli-tv-bi-pm:52.1
Pali: Niṭṭhitacīvarasmiṁ bhikkhuniyā ubbhatasmiṁ kathine bhikkhuniyā paneva akālacīvaraṁ uppajjeyya, ākaṅkhamānāya bhikkhuniyā paṭiggahetabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): When her robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if out-of-season robe-cloth is offered to a nun, she may receive it if she wishes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When her robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if out-of-season robe-cloth is given to a nun, she may receive it if she wishes. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:52.2
Pali: paṭiggahetvā khippameva kāretabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she receives it, she should quickly make a robe. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she receives it, she should quickly make a robe. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:52.3
Pali: no cassa pāripūri, māsaparamaṁ tāya bhikkhuniyā taṁ cīvaraṁ nikkhipitabbaṁ ūnassa pāripūriyā satiyā paccāsāya. 
English (brahmali, published): If there is not enough cloth, but she is expecting more, she should keep it at most one month to make up the lack. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If there is not enough cloth, but she is expecting more, she should keep it at most one month to make up the lack. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:52.4
Pali: Tato ce uttari nikkhipeyya satiyāpi paccāsāya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she keeps it longer than that, then even if she expects more cloth, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she keeps it longer than that, then even if she expects more cloth, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:53.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 16. Aññātakaviññattisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 16: asking an unrelated person for a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 16: Asking an Unrelated Person for Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:53.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aññātakaṁ gahapatiṁ vā gahapatāniṁ vā cīvaraṁ viññāpeyya aññatra samayā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun asks an unrelated male or female householder for a robe, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun asks an unrelated male or female householder for a robe, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:53.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo acchinnacīvarā vā hoti bhikkhunī, naṭṭhacīvarā vā, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: her robes are stolen or her robes are lost. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: her robes are stolen or her robes are lost. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:54.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 17. Tatuttarisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 17: accepting too many robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 17: Accepting Too Many Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:54.1
Pali: Tañce aññātako gahapati vā gahapatānī vā bahūhi cīvarehi abhihaṭṭhuṁ pavāreyya, santaruttaraparamaṁ tāya bhikkhuniyā tato cīvaraṁ sāditabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If an unrelated male or female householder invites that nun to take many robes, she should accept at most one sarong and one upper robe. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If an unrelated male or female householder invites that nun to take many robes, she should accept at most one sarong and one upper robe. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:54.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari sādiyeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she accepts more than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she accepts more than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:55.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 18. Paṭhamaupakkhaṭasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 18: requesting a fine robe from a fund 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 18: Requesting Fine Robes From a Robe Fund 

pli-tv-bi-pm:55.1
Pali: Bhikkhuniṁ paneva uddissa aññātakassa gahapatissa vā gahapatāniyā vā cīvaracetāpannaṁ upakkhaṭaṁ hoti: 
English (brahmali, published): If a male or female householder has set aside a robe fund for an unrelated nun, thinking, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a male or female householder has set aside a robe fund for an unrelated nun, thinking, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:55.2
Pali: “iminā cīvaracetāpannena cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā itthannāmaṁ bhikkhuniṁ cīvarena acchādessāmī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘With this robe fund I will buy robe-cloth and give it to nun so-and-so;’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘With this robe fund I will buy robe-cloth and give it to nun so-and-so;’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:55.3
Pali: Tatra cesā bhikkhunī pubbe appavāritā upasaṅkamitvā cīvare vikappaṁ āpajjeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): and if that nun, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth she wants, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and if that nun, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth she wants, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:55.4
Pali: “sādhu vata, maṁ āyasmā iminā cīvaracetāpannena evarūpaṁ vā evarūpaṁ vā cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā acchādehī”ti 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Please use this robe fund to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘It would be good if you would use this robe fund to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:55.5
Pali: kalyāṇakamyataṁ upādāya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): and she does so because she wants something fine, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and she does so because she wants something fine, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:56.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 19. Dutiyaupakkhaṭasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 19: requesting a fine robe from a combined fund 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 19: Requesting Fine Robes From a Combined Robe Fund 

pli-tv-bi-pm:56.1
Pali: Bhikkhuniṁ paneva uddissa ubhinnaṁ aññātakānaṁ gahapatīnaṁ vā gahapatānīnaṁ vā paccekacīvaracetāpannāni upakkhaṭāni honti: 
English (brahmali, published): If two male or female householders have set aside separate robe funds for an unrelated nun, thinking, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If two male or female householders have set aside separate robe funds for an unrelated nun, thinking, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:56.2
Pali: “imehi mayaṁ paccekacīvaracetāpannehi paccekacīvarāni cetāpetvā itthannāmaṁ bhikkhuniṁ cīvarehi acchādessāmā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘With these separate robe funds we’ll buy separate robe-cloths and give them to nun so-and-so;’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘With these separate robe funds we’ll buy separate robe-cloths and give them to nun so-and-so;’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:56.3
Pali: Tatra cesā bhikkhūnī pubbe appavāritā upasaṅkamitvā cīvare vikappaṁ āpajjeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): and if that nun, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth she wants, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and if that nun, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth she wants, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:56.4
Pali: “sādhu vata maṁ āyasmanto imehi paccekacīvaracetāpannehi evarūpaṁ vā evarūpaṁ vā cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā acchādetha ubhova santā ekenā”ti 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Please put these separate robe funds together to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘It would be good if you would put these separate robe funds together to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:56.5
Pali: kalyāṇakamyataṁ upādāya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): and she does so because she wants something fine, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and she does so because she wants something fine, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 20. Rājasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 20: excessive prompting to get a robe 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.1
Pali: Bhikkhuniṁ paneva uddissa rājā vā rājabhoggo vā brāhmaṇo vā gahapatiko vā dūtena cīvaracetāpannaṁ pahiṇeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If a king, a king’s employee, a brahmin, or a householder sends a robe fund for a nun by messenger, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a king, a king’s employee, a brahmin, or a householder sends a robe fund for a nun by messenger, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.2
Pali: “iminā cīvaracetāpannena cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā itthannāmaṁ bhikkhuniṁ cīvarena acchādehī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Buy robe-cloth with this robe fund and give it to nun so-and-so,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Buy robe-cloth with this robe fund and give it to nun so-and-so,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.3
Pali: So ce dūto taṁ bhikkhuniṁ upasaṅkamitvā evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): and the messenger goes to that nun and says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and the messenger goes to that nun and says, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.4
Pali: “idaṁ kho, ayye, ayyaṁ uddissa cīvaracetāpannaṁ ābhataṁ, paṭiggaṇhātāyyā cīvaracetāpanna”nti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, I have brought a robe fund for you. Please receive it,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, I have brought a robe fund for you. Please receive it,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.5
Pali: Tāya bhikkhuniyā so dūto evamassa vacanīyo: 
English (brahmali, published): then that nun should reply, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then that nun should reply, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.6
Pali: “na kho mayaṁ, āvuso, cīvaracetāpannaṁ paṭiggaṇhāma, cīvarañca kho mayaṁ paṭiggaṇhāma kālena kappiya”nti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘We don’t receive robe funds, but we do receive allowable robe-cloth at the right time.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘We don’t receive robe funds, but we do receive allowable robe-cloth at the right time.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.7
Pali: So ce dūto taṁ bhikkhuniṁ evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If that messenger says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that messenger says, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.8
Pali: “atthi panāyyāya, koci veyyāvaccakaro”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Is there anyone who provides services for you?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Is there anyone who provides services for you?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.9
Pali: cīvaratthikāya, bhikkhave, bhikkhuniyā veyyāvaccakaro niddisitabbo ārāmiko vā upāsako vā: 
English (brahmali, published): the nun, if she needs robe-cloth, should point out a monastery worker or a lay follower and say, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the nun, if she needs robe-cloth, should point out a monastery worker or a lay follower and say, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.10
Pali: “eso kho, āvuso, bhikkhunīnaṁ veyyāvaccakaro”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘They provide services for the nuns.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘That person provides services for the nuns.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.11
Pali: So ce dūto taṁ veyyāvaccakaraṁ saññāpetvā taṁ bhikkhuniṁ upasaṅkamitvā evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If the messenger instructs that service provider and then returns to the nun and says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If the messenger instructs that service-provider and then returns to the nun and says, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.12
Pali: “yaṁ kho, ayye, ayyā veyyāvaccakaraṁ niddisi, saññatto so mayā, upasaṅkamatāyyā kālena, cīvarena taṁ acchādessatī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, I have instructed the service provider you pointed out. Please go to them at the right time and they’ll give you robe-cloth,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, I have instructed the service-provider you pointed out. Please go to them at the right time and he’ll give you robe-cloth,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.13
Pali: Cīvaratthikāya, bhikkhave, bhikkhuniyā veyyāvaccakaro upasaṅkamitvā dvattikkhattuṁ codetabbo sāretabbo: 
English (brahmali, published): then, if that nun needs robe-cloth, she should go to that service provider and prompt them and remind them two or three times, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then, if that nun needs robe-cloth, she should go to that service-provider and prompt and remind them two or three times, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.14
Pali: “attho me, āvuso, cīvarenā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I need robe-cloth.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “I need robe-cloth.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.15
Pali: dvattikkhattuṁ codayamānā sārayamānā taṁ cīvaraṁ abhinipphādeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.16
Pali: no ce abhinipphādeyya, catukkhattuṁ pañcakkhattuṁ chakkhattuparamaṁ tuṇhībhūtāya uddissa ṭhātabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not get it, she should stand in silence for it at most six times. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not get it, she should stand in silence for it at most six times. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.17
Pali: catukkhattuṁ pañcakkhattuṁ chakkhattuparamaṁ tuṇhībhūtā uddissa tiṭṭhamānā taṁ cīvaraṁ abhinipphādeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.18
Pali: Tato ce uttari vāyamamānā taṁ cīvaraṁ abhinipphādeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she makes any further effort and then gets robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she makes any further effort and then gets robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.19
Pali: No ce abhinipphādeyya, yatassā cīvaracetāpannaṁ ābhataṁ, tattha sāmaṁ vā gantabbaṁ, dūto vā pāhetabbo: 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not get robe-cloth, she should go to the owners of that robe fund, or send a message, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not get robe-cloth, she should go to the owners of that robe fund, or send a message, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.20
Pali: “yaṁ kho tumhe āyasmanto bhikkhuniṁ uddissa cīvaracetāpannaṁ pahiṇittha, na taṁ tassā bhikkhuniyā kiñci atthaṁ anubhoti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘That nun hasn’t received any benefit from the robe fund you sent for her. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘That nun hasn’t received any benefit from the robe fund you sent for her. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.21
Pali: yuñjantāyasmanto sakaṁ, mā vo sakaṁ vinassā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Please recover what’s yours, or it might perish.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Please recover what’s yours, or it might perish.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.22
Pali: ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:57.23
Pali: Cīvaravaggo dutiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The second subchapter on robes is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sub-chapter on robes is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:58.0.1
Pali: Pattavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on almsbowls 

pli-tv-bi-pm:58.0.2
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 21. Rūpiyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 21: becoming the owner of money 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 21: Money 

pli-tv-bi-pm:58.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jātarūparajataṁ uggaṇheyya vā uggaṇhāpeyya vā upanikkhittaṁ vā sādiyeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun takes, has someone else take, or consents to gold, silver, or money being deposited for her, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun takes, has someone else take, or consents to gold and silver being deposited for her, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:59.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 22. Rūpiyasaṁvohārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 22: trading with money 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 22: Trading With Money 

pli-tv-bi-pm:59.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī nānappakārakaṁ rūpiyasaṁvohāraṁ samāpajjeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun engages in various kinds of trades involving money, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun trades with money in various ways, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:60.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 23. Kayavikkayasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 23: bartering 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 23: Bartering 

pli-tv-bi-pm:60.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī nānappakārakaṁ kayavikkayaṁ samāpajjeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun engages in various kinds of barter, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun barters in various ways, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:61.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 24. Ūnapañcabandhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 24: exchanging an almsbowl with fewer than five mends 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 24: An Almsbowl With Fewer Than Five Mends 

pli-tv-bi-pm:61.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ūnapañcabandhanena pattena aññaṁ navaṁ pattaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun exchanges an almsbowl with fewer than five mends for a new almsbowl, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun exchanges an almsbowl with fewer than five mends for a new almsbowl, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:61.2
Pali: Tāya bhikkhuniyā so patto bhikkhuniparisāya nissajjitabbo, 
English (brahmali, published): That nun should relinquish that almsbowl to a gathering of nuns. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): That nun should relinquish that almsbowl to a gathering of nuns. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:61.3
Pali: yo ca tassā bhikkhuniparisāya pattapariyanto, so tassā bhikkhuniyā padātabbo: 
English (brahmali, published): She should then be given the last almsbowl belonging to that gathering: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): She should then be given the last almsbowl belonging to that gathering: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:61.4
Pali: “ayaṁ te bhikkhuni patto yāvabhedanāya dhāretabbo”ti, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Nun, this bowl is yours. Keep it until it breaks.’ This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Nun, this bowl is yours. Keep it until it breaks.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:62.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 25. Bhesajjasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 25: storing the five tonics too long 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 25: The Five Tonics 

pli-tv-bi-pm:62.1
Pali: Yāni kho pana tāni gilānānaṁ bhikkhunīnaṁ paṭisāyanīyāni bhesajjāni, seyyathidaṁ: sappi navanītaṁ telaṁ madhu phāṇitaṁ, tāni paṭiggahetvā sattāhaparamaṁ sannidhikārakaṁ paribhuñjitabbāni. 
English (brahmali, published): After being received, the tonics allowable for sick nuns—that is, ghee, butter, oil, honey, and syrup—should be used from storage for at most seven days. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): After being received, the tonics allowable for sick monks—that is, ghee, butter, oil, honey, and syrup: should be used from storage for at most seven days. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:62.2
Pali: Taṁ atikkāmentiyā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If one uses them longer than that, one commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she keeps it longer than that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:63.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 26. Cīvaraacchindanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 26: taking back robe-cloth in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 26: Taking Back Robe-Cloth 

pli-tv-bi-pm:63.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā sāmaṁ cīvaraṁ datvā kupitā anattamanā acchindeyya vā acchindāpeyya vā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun herself gives a robe to a nun, but then, in anger, takes it back or has it taken back, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun herself gives a robe to a nun, but then, in anger, takes it back or has it taken back, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:64.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 27. Suttaviññattisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 27: asking for thread 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 27: Asking for Thread 

pli-tv-bi-pm:64.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sāmaṁ suttaṁ viññāpetvā tantavāyehi cīvaraṁ vāyāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun herself asks for thread, and then has weavers weave her robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun herself asks for thread, and then has weavers weave her robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:65.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 28. Mahāpesakārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 28: bribing weavers 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 28: Bribing Weavers 

pli-tv-bi-pm:65.1
Pali: Bhikkhuniṁ paneva uddissa aññātako gahapati vā gahapatānī vā tantavāyehi cīvaraṁ vāyāpeyya, tatra cesā bhikkhunī pubbe appavāritā tantavāye upasaṅkamitvā cīvare vikappaṁ āpajjeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If a male or female householder is having robe-cloth woven by weavers for an unrelated nun and, without first being invited, that nun goes to those weavers and specifies the kind of robe-cloth she wants, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a male or female householder is having robe-cloth woven by weavers for an unrelated nun and, without first being invited, that nun goes to those weavers and specifies the kind of robe-cloth she wants, saying, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:65.2
Pali: “idaṁ kho āvuso cīvaraṁ maṁ uddissa viyyati, āyatañca karotha, vitthatañca appitañca suvītañca suppavāyitañca suvilekhitañca suvitacchitañca karotha, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘This robe-cloth that you are weaving for me, make it long and wide; make it closely woven, well-woven, well-stretched, well-scraped, and well-combed, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘This robe-cloth that you are weaving for me, make it long and wide; make it closely woven, well-woven, well-stretched, well-scraped, and well-combed, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:65.3
Pali: appeva nāma mayampi āyasmantānaṁ kiñcimattaṁ anupadajjeyyāmā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): and perhaps I will even give you a small gift,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and perhaps I will even give you a small gift,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:65.4
Pali: evañca sā bhikkhunī vatvā kiñcimattaṁ anupadajjeyya antamaso piṇḍapātamattampi, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): then, in saying that and afterwards giving them a small gift, even a bit of almsfood, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then, in saying that and afterwards giving them a small gift, even a bit of almsfood, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:66.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 29. Accekacīvarasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 29: storing haste-cloth too long 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 29: Haste-Cloth 

pli-tv-bi-pm:66.1
Pali: Dasāhānāgataṁ kattikatemāsikapuṇṇamaṁ bhikkhuniyā paneva accekacīvaraṁ uppajjeyya, accekaṁ maññamānāya bhikkhuniyā paṭiggahetabbaṁ, paṭiggahetvā yāva cīvarakālasamayaṁ nikkhipitabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When there are ten days left to the Kattika full moon that ends the first rainy-season residence and a haste-cloth is given to a nun, she may receive it if she regards it as urgent. She may then store it until the end of the robe season. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When there are ten days left to the Kattika full moon that ends the first rainy-season residence and haste-cloth is given to a nun, she may receive it if she regards it as urgent. She may then store it until the end of the robe season. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:66.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari nikkhipeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she stores it beyond that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she stores it beyond that, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:67.0
Pali: Nissaggiya pācittiya 30. Pariṇatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 30: diverting an offering intended for the Sangha 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 30: Offerings Intended for the Saṅgha 

pli-tv-bi-pm:67.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ saṅghikaṁ lābhaṁ pariṇataṁ attano pariṇāmeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun diverts to herself material support that she knows was intended for the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun diverts to herself material support that she knows was intended for the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:67.2
Pali: Pattavaggo tatiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The third subchapter on almsbowls is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sub-chapter on bowls is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:68.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho, ayyāyo, tiṁsa nissaggiyā pācittiyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:68.2
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:68.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:68.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:68.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:68.6
Pali: Nissaggiyapācittiyā niṭṭhitā. 
English (brahmali, published): The offenses entailing relinquishment and confession are finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The offenses entailing relinquishment and confession are finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:69.0
Pali: Suddhapācittiyā 
English (brahmali, published): The rules on confession 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Confession 

pli-tv-bi-pm:69.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyyāyo, chasaṭṭhisatā pācittiyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these one hundred and sixty-six rules on confession come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these hundred and sixty-six rules on confession come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:70.0.1
Pali: Lasuṇavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on garlic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:70.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 1. Lasuṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 1: eating garlic 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 1: Garlic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:70.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī lasuṇaṁ khādeyya pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun eats garlic, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun eats garlic, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:71.0
Pali: Pācittiya 2. Sambādhalomasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 2: removing pubic hair 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 2: Pubic Hair 

pli-tv-bi-pm:71.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sambādhe lomaṁ saṁharāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun removes hair from her private parts, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun removes hair from her private parts, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:72.0
Pali: Pācittiya 3. Talaghātakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 3: masturbation 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 3: Masturbation 

pli-tv-bi-pm:72.1
Pali: Talaghātake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun slaps her genitals with the palm of her hand, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun slaps her genitals with the palm of her hand, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:73.0
Pali: Pācittiya 4. Jatumaṭṭhakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 4: using a dildo 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 4: Dildos 

pli-tv-bi-pm:73.1
Pali: Jatumaṭṭhake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun uses a dildo, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun uses a dildo, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:74.0
Pali: Pācittiya 5. Udakasuddhikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 5: intimate washing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 5: Douching 

pli-tv-bi-pm:74.1
Pali: Udakasuddhikaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā ādiyamānāya dvaṅgulapabbaparamaṁ ādātabbaṁ. Taṁ atikkāmentiyā pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is cleaning herself with water, she may insert two finger joints at the most. If she goes further than that, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is cleaning herself with water, she may insert two finger joints at the most. If she goes further than that, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:75.0
Pali: Pācittiya 6. Upatiṭṭhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 6: attending on a monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 6: Attending a Monk 

pli-tv-bi-pm:75.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhussa bhuñjantassa pānīyena vā vidhūpanena vā upatiṭṭheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If, when a monk is eating, a nun attends on him with drinking water or a fan, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, when a monk is eating, a nun attends on him with drinking water or a fan, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:76.0
Pali: Pācittiya 7. Āmakadhaññasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 7: asking for raw grain 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 7: Raw Grain 

pli-tv-bi-pm:76.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī āmakadhaññaṁ viññatvā vā viññāpetvā vā bhajjitvā vā bhajjāpetvā vā koṭṭetvā vā koṭṭāpetvā vā pacitvā vā pacāpetvā vā bhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun asks for or has someone else ask for raw grain, or she roasts it or has it roasted, or she pounds it or has it pounded, or she cooks it or has it cooked, and she then eats it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun asks for or has someone else ask for raw grain, or she roasts it or has it roasted, or she pounds it or has it pounded, or she cooks it or has it cooked, and she then eats it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:77.0
Pali: Pācittiya 8. Paṭhamauccārachaḍḍanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 8: disposing of waste over a wall 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 8: Disposing Feces 

pli-tv-bi-pm:77.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā saṅkāraṁ vā vighāsaṁ vā tirokuṭṭe vā tiropākāre vā chaḍḍeyya vā chaḍḍāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun disposes of feces or urine or trash or food scraps over a wall or over an encircling wall, or she has it disposed of in this way, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun disposes of feces or urine or trash or food scraps over a wall or over an encircling wall, or she has it disposed of in this way, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:78.0
Pali: Pācittiya 9. Dutiyauccārachaḍḍanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 9: disposing of waste on plants 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 9: Disposing Feces on Plants 

pli-tv-bi-pm:78.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā saṅkāraṁ vā vighāsaṁ vā harite chaḍḍeyya vā chaḍḍāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun disposes of feces or urine or trash or food scraps on cultivated plants, or she has it disposed of in this way, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun disposes of feces or urine or trash or food scraps on cultivated plants, or she has it disposed of in this way, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:79.0
Pali: Pācittiya 10. Naccagītasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 10: watching entertainment 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 10: Dancing and Singing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:79.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī naccaṁ vā gītaṁ vā vāditaṁ vā dassanāya gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes to see dancing or singing or music, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes to see dancing or singing or music, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:79.2
Pali: Lasuṇavaggo paṭhamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The first subchapter on garlic is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sub-chapter on garlic is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:80.0.1
Pali: Rattandhakāravaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on the dark of the night 

pli-tv-bi-pm:80.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 11. Rattandhakārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 11: meeting a man in the dark 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 11: The Dark of the Night 

pli-tv-bi-pm:80.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī rattandhakāre appadīpe purisena saddhiṁ ekenekā santiṭṭheyya vā sallapeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If, in the dark of the night without a lamp, a nun stands or talks alone with a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, in the dark of the night without a lamp, a nun stands or talks alone with a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:81.0
Pali: Pācittiya 12. Paṭicchannokāsasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 12: meeting a man in a concealed place 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 12: Concealed Places 

pli-tv-bi-pm:81.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī paṭicchanne okāse purisena saddhiṁ ekenekā santiṭṭheyya vā sallapeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun stands or talks alone with a man in a concealed place, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun stands or talks alone with a man in a concealed place, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:82.0
Pali: Pācittiya 13. Ajjhokāsasallapanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 13: meeting a man in the open 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 13: Talking In the Open 

pli-tv-bi-pm:82.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ajjhokāse purisena saddhiṁ ekenekā santiṭṭheyya vā sallapeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun stands or talks alone with a man out in the open, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun stands or talks alone with a man out in the open, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:83.0
Pali: Pācittiya 14. Dutiyikauyyojanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 14: meeting a man on a street 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 14: Dismissing a Companion 

pli-tv-bi-pm:83.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī rathikāya vā byūhe vā siṅghāṭake vā purisena saddhiṁ ekenekā santiṭṭheyya vā sallapeyya vā nikaṇṇikaṁ vā jappeyya dutiyikaṁ vā bhikkhuniṁ uyyojeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun stands or talks alone with a man on a street or in a cul-de-sac or at an intersection, or she whispers in his ear or dismisses her companion nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun stands or talks alone with a man on a street or in a cul-de-sac or at an intersection, or she whispers in his ear or dismisses her companion nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:84.0
Pali: Pācittiya 15. Anāpucchāpakkamanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 15: departing without taking leave 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 15: Departing Without Taking Leave 

pli-tv-bi-pm:84.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī purebhattaṁ kulāni upasaṅkamitvā āsane nisīditvā sāmike anāpucchā pakkameyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun visits families before the meal, sits down on a seat, and then departs without informing the owners, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun visits families before the meal, sits down on a seat, and then departs without informing the owners, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:85.0
Pali: Pācittiya 16. Anāpucchāabhinisīdanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 16: sitting down without permission 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 16: Sitting Without Permission 

pli-tv-bi-pm:85.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pacchābhattaṁ kulāni upasaṅkamitvā sāmike anāpucchā āsane abhinisīdeyya vā abhinipajjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun visits families after the meal, and then sits down or lies down on a seat without asking permission of the owners, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun visits families after the meal, and then sits down or lies down on a seat without asking permission of the owners, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:86.0
Pali: Pācittiya 17. Anāpucchāsantharaṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 17: putting out bedding without permission 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 17: Laying Bedding Without Permission 

pli-tv-bi-pm:86.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī vikāle kulāni upasaṅkamitvā sāmike anāpucchā seyyaṁ santharitvā vā santharāpetvā vā abhinisīdeyya vā abhinipajjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun visits families at the wrong time, puts out bedding without asking permission of the owners, or has it put out, and then sits down or lies down on it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun visits families at the wrong time, puts out bedding without asking permission of the owners, or has it put out, and then sits down or lies down on it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:87.0
Pali: Pācittiya 18. Paraujjhāpanakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 18: complaining without reflection 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 18: Complaining About Others 

pli-tv-bi-pm:87.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī duggahitena dūpadhāritena paraṁ ujjhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun complains about someone else because of a misunderstanding and a lack of proper reflection, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun complains about someone else because of misunderstanding and a lack of proper reflection, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:88.0
Pali: Pācittiya 19. Paraabhisapanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 19: cursing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 19: Cursing Another 

pli-tv-bi-pm:88.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī attānaṁ vā paraṁ vā nirayena vā brahmacariyena vā abhisapeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun curses herself or someone else, referring to hell or the spiritual life, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun curses herself or someone else, referring to hell or the spiritual life, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:89.0
Pali: Pācittiya 20. Rodanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 20: crying and beating oneself 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 20: Crying 

pli-tv-bi-pm:89.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī attānaṁ vadhitvā vadhitvā rodeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun cries after repeatedly beating herself, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun cries after repeatedly beating herself, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:89.2
Pali: Rattandhakāravaggo dutiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The second subchapter on the dark of the night is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The second sub-chapter on dark of the night is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:90.0.1
Pali: Naggavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on nakedness 

pli-tv-bi-pm:90.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 21. Naggasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 21: bathing naked 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 21: Nakedness 

pli-tv-bi-pm:90.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī naggā nahāyeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun bathes naked, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun bathes naked, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:91.0
Pali: Pācittiya 22. Udakasāṭikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 22: making an oversize bathing robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 22: Bathing Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:91.1
Pali: Udakasāṭikaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā kārayamānāya pamāṇikā kāretabbā, tatridaṁ pamāṇaṁ, dīghaso catasso vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ dve vidatthiyo. Taṁ atikkāmentiyā chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is having a bathing robe made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: four standard handspans long and two wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is having a bathing robe made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: four standard handspans long and two wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:92.0
Pali: Pācittiya 23. Cīvarasibbanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 23: unstitching a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 23: Sewing Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:92.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā cīvaraṁ visibbetvā vā visibbāpetvā vā sā pacchā anantarāyikinī neva sibbeyya, na sibbāpanāya ussukkaṁ kareyya aññatra catūhapañcāhā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, after unstitching a nun’s robe or having it unstitched, neither sews it herself nor makes any effort to have someone else sew it, and there were no obstacles, then, except if it was no more than four or five days, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, after unstitching a nun’s robe or having it unstitched, neither sews it herself nor makes any effort to have someone else sew it, then, if there was no obstruction or it was no more than four or five days, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:93.0
Pali: Pācittiya 24. Saṅghāṭicārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 24: moving robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 24: Moving Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:93.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pañcāhikaṁ saṅghāṭicāraṁ atikkāmeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun does not move her robes for more than five days, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun does not move her robes for more than five days, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:94.0
Pali: Pācittiya 25. Cīvarasaṅkamanīyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 25: borrowing a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 25: Borrowed Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:94.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī cīvarasaṅkamanīyaṁ dhāreyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun wears a robe taken on loan, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun wears a robe taken on loan, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:95.0
Pali: Pācittiya 26. Gaṇacīvarasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 26: hindering robe-cloth for the community 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 26: Group Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:95.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī gaṇassa cīvaralābhaṁ antarāyaṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun creates an obstacle for the community to get robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun creates an obstacle for a group to get robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:96.0
Pali: Pācittiya 27. Paṭibāhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 27: blocking robe-cloth distribution 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 27: Blocking Robe Distribution 

pli-tv-bi-pm:96.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dhammikaṁ cīvaravibhaṅgaṁ paṭibāheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun blocks a legitimate distribution of robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun blocks a legitimate distribution of robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:97.0
Pali: Pācittiya 28. Cīvaradānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 28: giving a robe to a non-monastic 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 28: Giving RObes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:97.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agārikassa vā paribbājakassa vā paribbājikāya vā samaṇacīvaraṁ dadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives a monastic robe to a householder or a male wanderer or a female wanderer, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives a monastic robe to a householder or a male wanderer or a female wanderer, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:98.0
Pali: Pācittiya 29. Kālaatikkamanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 29: letting the robe season expire 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 29: Letting the Time Expire 

pli-tv-bi-pm:98.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dubbalacīvarapaccāsāya cīvarakālasamayaṁ atikkāmeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun lets the robe season expire because of an uncertain expectation of robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun lets the robe season expire because of an uncertain expectation of robe-cloth, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:99.0
Pali: Pācittiya 30. Kathinuddhārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 30: blocking the ending of the robe season 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 30: Ending the Robe-Making Season 

pli-tv-bi-pm:99.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dhammikaṁ kathinuddhāraṁ paṭibāheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun blocks a legitimate ending of the robe season, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun blocks a legitimate ending of the robe season, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:99.2
Pali: Naggavaggo tatiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The third subchapter on nakedness is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The third sub-chapter on nakedness is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:100.0.1
Pali: Tuvaṭṭavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on lying down 

pli-tv-bi-pm:100.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 31. Ekamañcatuvaṭṭanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 31: lying on the same bed 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 31: Lying on the Same Bed 

pli-tv-bi-pm:100.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhuniyo dve ekamañce tuvaṭṭeyyuṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If two nuns lie down on the same bed, they commit an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If two nuns lie down on the same bed, they commit an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:101.0
Pali: Pācittiya 32. Ekattharaṇatuvaṭṭanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 32: lying on the same sheet 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 32: Lying on the Same Sheet 

pli-tv-bi-pm:101.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhuniyo dve ekattharaṇapāvuraṇā tuvaṭṭeyyuṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If two nuns lie down on the same sheet and under the same cover, they commit an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If two nuns lie down on the same sheet and under the same cover, they commit an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:102.0
Pali: Pācittiya 33. Aphāsukaraṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 33: making a nun ill at ease 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 33: Making Ill at Ease 

pli-tv-bi-pm:102.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā sañcicca aphāsuṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun intentionally makes a nun ill at ease, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun intentionally makes a nun ill at ease, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:103.0
Pali: Pācittiya 34. Naupaṭṭhāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 34: not nursing a disciple 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 34: Not Nursing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:103.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dukkhitaṁ sahajīviniṁ neva upaṭṭhaheyya, na upaṭṭhāpanāya ussukkaṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun neither nurses a suffering disciple, nor makes any effort to have someone else nurse her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun neither nurses a suffering disciple, nor makes any effort to have someone else nurse her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:104.0
Pali: Pācittiya 35. Nikkaḍḍhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 35: evicting a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 35: Throwing Out a Monastic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:104.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā upassayaṁ datvā kupitā anattamanā nikkaḍḍheyya vā nikkaḍḍhāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives a dwelling place to a nun, and then, in anger, throws her out or has her thrown out, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives a dwelling place to a nun, and then, in anger, throws her out or has her thrown out, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:105.0
Pali: Pācittiya 36. Saṁsaṭṭhasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 36: socializing with a householder 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 36: Socializing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:105.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṁsaṭṭhā vihareyya gahapatinā vā gahapatiputtena vā, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is socializing with a householder or a householder’s offspring, the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is socializing with a householder or a householder’s offspring, the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:105.2
Pali: “māyye, saṁsaṭṭhā vihari gahapatināpi gahapatiputtenāpi, viviccāyye, vivekaññeva bhaginiyā saṅgho vaṇṇetī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, don’t socialize with householders or householders’ offspring. Be secluded, venerable. The Sangha praises seclusion for the sisters.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, don’t socialize with householders or householders’ offspring. Be secluded, Venerable. The Sangha praises seclusion for the Sisters.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:105.3
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:105.4
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:105.5
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not stop, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she does not stop, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:106.0
Pali: Pācittiya 37. Antoraṭṭhasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 37: wandering within the country 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 37: Within Their Own Country 

pli-tv-bi-pm:106.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī antoraṭṭhe sāsaṅkasammate sappaṭibhaye asatthikā cārikaṁ careyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes wandering without a group of travelers where it is considered risky and dangerous within her own country, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes wandering without a group of travelers where it is considered risky and dangerous within her own country, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:107.0
Pali: Pācittiya 38. Tiroraṭṭhasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 38: wandering outside the country 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 38: Outside Their Own Country 

pli-tv-bi-pm:107.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī tiroraṭṭhe sāsaṅkasammate sappaṭibhaye asatthikā cārikaṁ careyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes wandering without a group of travelers where it is considered risky and dangerous outside her own country, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes wandering without a group of travelers where it is considered risky and dangerous outside her own country, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:108.0
Pali: Pācittiya 39. Antovassasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 39: wandering during the rainy season 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 39: During the Rainy Season 

pli-tv-bi-pm:108.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī antovassaṁ cārikaṁ careyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes wandering during the rainy season, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes wandering during the rainy season, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:109.0
Pali: Pācittiya 40. Cārikanapakkamanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 40: not wandering after the rainy season 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 40: Going Wandering 

pli-tv-bi-pm:109.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī vassaṁvuṭṭhā cārikaṁ na pakkameyya antamaso chappañcayojanānipi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who has completed the rainy-season residence does not go wandering at least 65 to 80 kilometers, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who has completed the rainy-season residence does not go wandering at least 65 to 80 kilometers, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:109.2
Pali: Tuvaṭṭavaggo catuttho. 
English (brahmali, published): The fourth subchapter on lying down is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fourth sub-chapter on Lying Down is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:110.0.1
Pali: Cittāgāravaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on galleries 

pli-tv-bi-pm:110.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 41. Rājāgārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 41: visiting places of pleasure 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 41: Royal Houses 

pli-tv-bi-pm:110.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī rājāgāraṁ vā cittāgāraṁ vā ārāmaṁ vā uyyānaṁ vā pokkharaṇiṁ vā dassanāya gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun visits a royal house or a gallery or a park or a garden or a lotus pond, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun visits a royal house or a pleasure house or a park or a garden or a lotus pond, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:111.0
Pali: Pācittiya 42. Āsandiparibhuñjanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 42: using luxurious furniture 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 42: Using High Couches 

pli-tv-bi-pm:111.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī āsandiṁ vā pallaṅkaṁ vā paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun uses a high or luxurious couch, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun uses a high or luxurious couch, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:112.0
Pali: Pācittiya 43. Suttakantanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 43: spinning yarn 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 43: Spinning Yarn 

pli-tv-bi-pm:112.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī suttaṁ kanteyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun spins yarn, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun spins yarn, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:113.0
Pali: Pācittiya 44. Gihiveyyāvaccasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 44: serving householders 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 44: Serving Householders 

pli-tv-bi-pm:113.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī gihiveyyāvaccaṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun provides services for a householder, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun provides services for a householder, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:114.0
Pali: Pācittiya 45. Adhikaraṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 45: not resolving a legal issue 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 45: Legal Issues 

pli-tv-bi-pm:114.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā: “ehāyye, imaṁ adhikaraṇaṁ vūpasamehī”ti vuccamānā: “sādhū”ti paṭissuṇitvā sā pacchā anantarāyikinī neva vūpasameyya, na vūpasamāya ussukkaṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If, when a nun is requested by a nun to resolve a legal issue, she agrees, but then neither resolves it nor makes any effort to resolve it, then, if there were no obstacles, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, when asked by a nun, a nun consents to resolve a legal issue, but then neither resolves it nor makes any effort to resolve it, then, if there was no obstruction, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:115.0
Pali: Pācittiya 46. Bhojanadānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 46: giving food to a non-monastic 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 46: Giving Food 

pli-tv-bi-pm:115.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agārikassa vā paribbājakassa vā paribbājikāya vā sahatthā khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā dadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun personally gives fresh or cooked food to a householder or a male wanderer or a female wanderer, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun personally gives fresh or cooked food to a householder or a male wanderer or a female wanderer, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:116.0
Pali: Pācittiya 47. Āvasathacīvarasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 47: not relinquishing a communal robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 47: Monastery Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:116.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī āvasathacīvaraṁ anissajjetvā paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun does not relinquish a communal robe, but continues to use it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun does not relinquish a monastery robe, but continues to use it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:117.0
Pali: Pācittiya 48. Āvasathavihārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 48: not relinquishing a lodging 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 48: Lodgings 

pli-tv-bi-pm:117.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī āvasathaṁ anissajjitvā cārikaṁ pakkameyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes wandering without relinquishing her lodging, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes wandering without relinquishing her lodging, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:118.0
Pali: Pācittiya 49. Tiracchānavijjāpariyāpuṇanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 49: studying worldly subjects 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession Learning Pointless Knowledge 

pli-tv-bi-pm:118.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī tiracchānavijjaṁ pariyāpuṇeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun studies worldly subjects, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun learns pointless knowledge, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:119.0
Pali: Pācittiya 50. Tiracchānavijjāvācanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 50: teaching worldly subjects 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 50: Teaching Pointless Knowledge 

pli-tv-bi-pm:119.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī tiracchānavijjaṁ vāceyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun teaches worldly subjects, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun teaches pointless knowledge, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:119.2
Pali: Cittāgāravaggo pañcamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The fifth subchapter on galleries is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fifth sub-chapter on Royal Houses is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:120.0.1
Pali: Ārāmavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on monasteries 

pli-tv-bi-pm:120.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 51. Ārāmapavisanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 51: entering a monks’ monastery 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 51: Entering Monasteries 

pli-tv-bi-pm:120.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ sabhikkhukaṁ ārāmaṁ anāpucchā paviseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, knowing that there are monks in a monastery, enters it without asking permission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, knowing that there are monks in a monastery, enters it without asking permission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:121.0
Pali: Pācittiya 52. Bhikkhuakkosanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 52: abusing a monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 52: Abusing Monks 

pli-tv-bi-pm:121.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuṁ akkoseyya vā paribhāseyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun abuses or reviles a monk, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun abuses or reviles a monk, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:122.0
Pali: Pācittiya 53. Gaṇaparibhāsanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 53: reviling the community 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 53: Reviling a Group 

pli-tv-bi-pm:122.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī caṇḍīkatā gaṇaṁ paribhāseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a furious nun reviles the community, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a furious nun reviles a community, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:123.0
Pali: Pācittiya 54. Pavāritasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 54: eating more after refusing an offer 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 54: Inviting 

pli-tv-bi-pm:123.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī nimantitā vā pavāritā vā khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, who has been invited to a meal, refuses an offer to eat more, and then eats fresh or cooked food, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, who has been invited to a meal, refuses an invitation to eat more, and then eats fresh or cooked food, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:124.0
Pali: Pācittiya 55. Kulamaccharinīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 55: being stingy with families 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 55: Stingy With Families 

pli-tv-bi-pm:124.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī kulamaccharinī assa, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun keeps a family to herself, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is keeps a family for herself, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:125.0
Pali: Pācittiya 56. Abhikkhukāvāsasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 56: spending the rainy season apart from monks 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 56: Staying Apart from Monks 

pli-tv-bi-pm:125.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī abhikkhuke āvāse vassaṁ vaseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun spends the rainy-season residence in a monastery without monks, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun spends the rainy-season residence in a monastery without monks, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:126.0
Pali: Pācittiya 57. Apavāraṇāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 57: not doing the invitation ceremony 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 57: Not Inviting 

pli-tv-bi-pm:126.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī vassaṁvuṭṭhā ubhatosaṅghe tīhi ṭhānehi na pavāreyya diṭṭhena vā sutena vā parisaṅkāya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who has completed the rainy-season residence does not invite correction from both Sanghas in regard to three things—what has been seen, heard, or suspected—she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who has completed the rainy-season residence does not invite correction from both Sanghas in regard to three things—what has been seen, what has been heard, and what has been suspected—she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:127.0
Pali: Pācittiya 58. Ovādasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 58: not going to the instruction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 58: Instruction 

pli-tv-bi-pm:127.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ovādāya vā saṁvāsāya vā na gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun does not go to the instruction or to a formal meeting of the community, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun does not go to the instruction or take part in a formal meeting of the community, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:128.0
Pali: Pācittiya 59. Ovādūpasaṅkamanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 59: not seeking the instruction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 59: Going to the Instruction 

pli-tv-bi-pm:128.1
Pali: Anvaddhamāsaṁ bhikkhuniyā bhikkhusaṅghato dve dhammā paccāsīsitabbā uposathapucchakañca ovādūpasaṅkamanañca. Taṁ atikkāmentiyā pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Every half-month a nun should seek two things from the Sangha of monks: asking it about the observance day and going to it for the instruction. If she lets the half-month pass, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Every half-month a nun should seek two things from the Sangha of monks: asking it about the observance day and going to it for the instruction. If she lets the half-month pass, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:129.0
Pali: Pācittiya 60. Pasākhejātasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 60: getting medical treatment from a man 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 60: Medical Treatment Below the Navel 

pli-tv-bi-pm:129.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pasākhe jātaṁ gaṇḍaṁ vā rudhitaṁ vā anapaloketvā saṅghaṁ vā gaṇaṁ vā purisena saddhiṁ ekenekā bhedāpeyya vā phālāpeyya vā dhovāpeyya vā ālimpāpeyya vā bandhāpeyya vā mocāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, alone with a man, without getting permission from the Sangha or a group, has an abscess or a wound situated on the lower part of her body ruptured by him, or split open, washed, anointed, bandaged, or unwrapped by him, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, alone with a man, without getting permission from the Sangha or a group, has an abscess or a wound situated on the lower part of her body ruptured by him, or split open, washed, anointed, bandaged, or unwrapped by him, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:129.2
Pali: Ārāmavaggo chaṭṭho. 
English (brahmali, published): The sixth subchapter on monasteries is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sixth sub-chapter on monsteries is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:130.0.1
Pali: Gabbhinivaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on pregnant women 

pli-tv-bi-pm:130.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 61. Gabbhinīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 61: ordaining a pregnant woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 61: Ordaining a Pregnant Woman 

pli-tv-bi-pm:130.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī gabbhiniṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a pregnant woman, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a pregnant woman, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:131.0
Pali: Pācittiya 62. Pāyantīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 62: ordaining a breastfeeding woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 62: Ordaining a Breastfeeding Woman 

pli-tv-bi-pm:131.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pāyantiṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a woman who is breastfeeding, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a woman who is breastfeeding, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:132.0
Pali: Pācittiya 63. Paṭhamasikkhamānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 63: ordaining an untrained candidate 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 63: Ordaining Untrained Candidate 

pli-tv-bi-pm:132.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dve vassāni chasu dhammesu asikkhitasikkhaṁ sikkhamānaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who has not trained for two years in the six rules, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who has not trained in the six rules for two years, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:133.0
Pali: Pācittiya 64. Dutiyasikkhamānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 64: ordaining a trained candidate without approval 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 64: Ordaining Trained Candidate Without Approval 

pli-tv-bi-pm:133.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dve vassāni chasu dhammesu sikkhitasikkhaṁ sikkhamānaṁ saṅghena asammataṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who has trained for two years in the six rules, but who has not been approved by the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who has trained in the six rules for two years, but who has not been approved by the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:134.0
Pali: Pācittiya 65. Paṭhamagihigatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 65: ordaining a married girl under twelve 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 65: Ordaining Married Girls Under Twelve 

pli-tv-bi-pm:134.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ūnadvādasavassaṁ gihigataṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a married girl who is less than twelve years old, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a married girl who is less than twelve years old, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:135.0
Pali: Pācittiya 66. Dutiyagihigatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 66: ordaining an untrained married girl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 66: Ordaining Untrained Married Girls 

pli-tv-bi-pm:135.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī paripuṇṇadvādasavassaṁ gihigataṁ dve vassāni chasu dhammesu asikkhitasikkhaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a married girl who is more than twelve years old, but who has not trained for two years in the six rules, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a married girl who is more than twelve years old, but who has not trained in the six rules for two years, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:136.0
Pali: Pācittiya 67. Tatiyagihigatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 67: ordaining a trained married girl without approval 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 67: Ordaining Trained married Girls Without Approval 

pli-tv-bi-pm:136.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī paripuṇṇadvādasavassaṁ gihigataṁ dve vassāni chasu dhammesu sikkhitasikkhaṁ saṅghena asammataṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a married girl who is more than twelve years old and who has trained for two years in the six rules, but who has not been approved by the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a married girl who is more than twelve years old and who has trained for two years in the six rules, but who has not been approved by the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:137.0
Pali: Pācittiya 68. Paṭhamasahajīvinīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 68: not guiding a disciple after ordination 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 68: Not Guiding a Disciple After Ordinaition 

pli-tv-bi-pm:137.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sahajīviniṁ vuṭṭhāpetvā dve vassāni neva anuggaṇheyya na anuggaṇhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a disciple, and then, for the next two years, neither guides her nor has her guided, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to her disciple, and then, for the next two years, neither guides her nor has her guided, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:138.0
Pali: Pācittiya 69. Pavattinīnānubandhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 69: not following a mentor 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 69: Not Following a Mentor 

pli-tv-bi-pm:138.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī vuṭṭhāpitaṁ pavattiniṁ dve vassāni nānubandheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun does not follow the mentor who gave her the full admission for two years, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun does not follow the mentor who gave her the full admission for two years, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:139.0
Pali: Pācittiya 70. Dutiyasahajīvinīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 70: not sending away a new disciple 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 70: Not Departing With Disciple 

pli-tv-bi-pm:139.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sahajīviniṁ vuṭṭhāpetvā neva vūpakāseyya na vūpakāsāpeyya antamaso chappañcayojanānipi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a disciple, and then neither sends her away nor has her sent away at least 65 to 80 kilometers, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to her disciple, and then neither sends her away nor has her sent away at least 65 to 80 kilometers, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:139.2
Pali: Gabbhinivaggo sattamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The seventh subchapter on pregnant women is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The seventh sub-chapter on pregnant women is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:140.0.1
Pali: Kumāribhūtavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on unmarried women 

pli-tv-bi-pm:140.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 71. Paṭhamakumāribhūtasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 71: ordaining an unmarried woman under twenty 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 71: Ordaining Married Girls Under Twenty 

pli-tv-bi-pm:140.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ūnavīsativassaṁ kumāribhūtaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to an unmarried woman who is less than twenty years old, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to an unmarried girl who is less than twenty years old, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:141.0
Pali: Pācittiya 72. Dutiyakumāribhūtasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 72: ordaining an untrained unmarried woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 72: Ordaining Untrained Unmarried Girls 

pli-tv-bi-pm:141.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī paripuṇṇavīsativassaṁ kumāribhūtaṁ dve vassāni chasu dhammesu asikkhitasikkhaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to an unmarried woman who is more than twenty years old, but who has not trained for two years in the six rules, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to an unmarried girl who is more than twenty years old, but who has not trained in the six rules for two years, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:142.0
Pali: Pācittiya 73. Tatiyakumāribhūtasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 73: ordaining a trained unmarried woman without approval 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 73: Ordaining Trained Unmarried Girls Without Approval 

pli-tv-bi-pm:142.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī paripuṇṇavīsativassaṁ kumāribhūtaṁ dve vassāni chasu dhammesu sikkhitasikkhaṁ saṅghena asammataṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to an unmarried woman who is more than twenty years old and who has trained for two years in the six rules, but who has not been approved by the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to an unmarried girl who is more than twenty years old and who has trained for two years in the six rules, but who has not been approved by the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:143.0
Pali: Pācittiya 74. Ūnadvādasavassasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 74: giving ordination while under twelve years’ seniority 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 74: Under Twelve Years of Seniority 

pli-tv-bi-pm:143.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ūnadvādasavassā vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who has less than twelve years of seniority gives the full admission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who has less than twelve years of seniority gives the full admission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:144.0
Pali: Pācittiya 75. Paripuṇṇadvādasavassasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 75: giving ordination without approval 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 75: Twelve Years of Seniority Without Approval 

pli-tv-bi-pm:144.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī paripuṇṇadvādasavassā saṅghena asammatā vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who has twelve years of seniority gives the full admission without approval from the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who has twelve years of seniority gives the full admission without approval from the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:145.0
Pali: Pācittiya 76. Khiyyanadhammasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 76: agreeing to stop ordaining, but then criticizing it 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 76: Criticizing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:145.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī, “alaṁ tāva te, ayye, vuṭṭhāpitenā”ti vuccamānā, “sādhū”ti paṭissuṇitvā sā pacchā khiyyanadhammaṁ āpajjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is told, ‘Venerable, you’ve given enough full admissions for now,’ and she consents, saying, ‘Fine,’ but then criticizes it afterwards, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is told, ‘Venerable, you have given enough full admissions for now,’ and she consents, saying, ‘Fine,’ but then criticizes it afterwards, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:146.0
Pali: Pācittiya 77. Paṭhamasikkhamānanavuṭṭhāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 77: not ordaining a trainee after promising 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 77: Not Ordaining Trainees After Promising 

pli-tv-bi-pm:146.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sikkhamānaṁ, “sace me tvaṁ, ayye, cīvaraṁ dassasi, evāhaṁ taṁ vuṭṭhāpessāmī”ti vatvā sā pacchā anantarāyikinī neva vuṭṭhāpeyya, na vuṭṭhāpanāya ussukkaṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun tells a trainee nun, ‘If you give me a robe, venerable, I’ll give you the full admission,’ but she then neither gives her the full admission nor makes any effort to have her fully admitted, then, if there were no obstacles, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun tells a trainee nun, If you give me a robe, Venerable, I’ll give you the full admission,’ but she then neither gives her the full admission nor makes any effort to have her fully admitted, then, if there was no obstruction, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:147.0
Pali: Pācittiya 78. Dutiyasikkhamānanavuṭṭhāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 78: not ordaining a trainee who has followed one 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 78: Not Ordaining Trainees After She Follows 

pli-tv-bi-pm:147.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sikkhamānaṁ, “sace maṁ tvaṁ, ayye, dve vassāni anubandhissasi, evāhaṁ taṁ vuṭṭhāpessāmī”ti vatvā sā pacchā anantarāyikinī neva vuṭṭhāpeyya, na vuṭṭhāpanāya ussukkaṁ kareyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun tells a trainee nun, ‘If you follow me for two years, venerable, I’ll give you the full admission,’ but she then neither gives her the full admission nor makes any effort to have her fully admitted, then, if there were no obstacles, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun tells a trainee nun, If you follow me for two years, Venerable, I’ll give you the full admission,’ but she then neither gives her the full admission nor makes any effort to have her fully admitted, then, if there was no obstruction, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:148.0
Pali: Pācittiya 79. Sokāvāsasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 79: ordaining one who is difficult to live with 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 79: Temperamental to Live With 

pli-tv-bi-pm:148.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī purisasaṁsaṭṭhaṁ kumārakasaṁsaṭṭhaṁ caṇḍiṁ sokāvāsaṁ sikkhamānaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who is socializing with men and boys and who is temperamental and difficult to live with, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who is socializing with men and boys and who is temperamental and difficult to live with, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:149.0
Pali: Pācittiya 80. Ananuññātasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 80: ordaining without permission from family 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 80: Ordaining Without Permission 

pli-tv-bi-pm:149.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī mātāpitūhi vā sāmikena vā ananuññātaṁ sikkhamānaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who has not been given permission by her parents or her husband, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun who has not been given permission by her parents or her husband, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:150.0
Pali: Pācittiya 81. Pārivāsikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 81: ordaining after consent expires 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 81: Ordaining After Consent Expires 

pli-tv-bi-pm:150.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pārivāsikachandadānena sikkhamānaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If, when a given consent has expired, a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, when any given consent has expired, a nun gives the full admission to a trainee nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:151.0
Pali: Pācittiya 82. Anuvassasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 82: ordaining every year 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 82: Every Year 

pli-tv-bi-pm:151.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anuvassaṁ vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives full admission every year, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives full admission every year, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:152.0
Pali: Pācittiya 83. Ekavassasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 83: ordaining two in the same year 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 83: One Year 

pli-tv-bi-pm:152.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ekaṁ vassaṁ dve vuṭṭhāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives the full admission to two women in the same year, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives the full admission to two women in one year, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:152.2
Pali: Kumāribhūtavaggo aṭṭhamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The eighth subchapter on unmarried women is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The eighth sub-chapter on unmarried girls is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:153.0.1
Pali: Chattupāhanavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on sunshades and sandals 

pli-tv-bi-pm:153.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 84. Chattupāhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 84: using sunshades and sandals 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 84: Sunshades and Sandals 

pli-tv-bi-pm:153.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā chattupāhanaṁ dhāreyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick uses a sunshade and sandals, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick travels in a vehicle, she commits an offense entailing confessIf a nun who is not sick uses a sunshade and sandals, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:154.0
Pali: Pācittiya 85. Yānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 85: traveling in a vehicle 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 85: Vehicle 

pli-tv-bi-pm:154.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā yānena yāyeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick travels in a vehicle, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick travels in a vehicle, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:155.0
Pali: Pācittiya 86. Saṅghāṇisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 86: wearing a hip ornament 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 86: Hip Ornaments 

pli-tv-bi-pm:155.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṅghāṇiṁ dhāreyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun wears a hip ornament, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun wears a hip ornament, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:156.0
Pali: Pācittiya 87. Itthālaṅkārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 87: wearing jewelry 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 87: Jewllery 

pli-tv-bi-pm:156.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī itthālaṅkāraṁ dhāreyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun wears jewelry, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun wears jewellery, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:157.0
Pali: Pācittiya 88. Gandhavaṇṇakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 88: bathing in scents and colors 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 88: Scents and Colors 

pli-tv-bi-pm:157.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī gandhavaṇṇakena nahāyeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun bathes with scents and colors, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun bathes with scents and colors, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:158.0
Pali: Pācittiya 89. Vāsitakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 89: bathing with sesame paste 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 89: What is Scented 

pli-tv-bi-pm:158.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī vāsitakena piññākena nahāyeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun bathes with scented sesame paste, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun bathes with scents and oil-seed flour, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:159.0
Pali: Pācittiya 90. Bhikkhuniummaddāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 90: getting a massage from a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 90: Getting Nuns to Massage 

pli-tv-bi-pm:159.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā ummaddāpeyya vā parimaddāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a nun massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a nun massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:160.0
Pali: Pācittiya 91. Sikkhamānaummaddāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 91: getting a massage from a trainee nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 91: Getting Trainees  to Massage 

pli-tv-bi-pm:160.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sikkhamānāya ummaddāpeyya vā parimaddāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a trainee nun massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a trainee nun massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:161.0
Pali: Pācittiya 92. Sāmaṇerīummaddāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 92: getting a massage from a novice nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 92: Getting Novices to Massage 

pli-tv-bi-pm:161.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sāmaṇeriyā ummaddāpeyya vā parimaddāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a novice nun massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a novice nun massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:162.0
Pali: Pācittiya 93. Gihiniummaddāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 93: getting a massage from a female householder 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 93: Getting Laywomen to Massage 

pli-tv-bi-pm:162.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī gihiniyā ummaddāpeyya vā parimaddāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a female householder massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a female householder massage her or rub her, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:163.0
Pali: Pācittiya 94. Anāpucchāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 94: sitting in front without permission 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 94: Not Asking Permission 

pli-tv-bi-pm:163.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhussa purato anāpucchā āsane nisīdeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun sits down on a seat in front of a monk without asking permission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun sits down on a seat in front of a monk without asking permission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:164.0
Pali: Pācittiya 95. Pañhāpucchanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 95: asking a question without permission 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 96: Asking Questions 

pli-tv-bi-pm:164.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anokāsakataṁ bhikkhuṁ pañhaṁ puccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun asks a question of a monk who has not given her permission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun asks a question of a monk who has not given her permission, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:165.0
Pali: Pācittiya 96. Asaṅkaccikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 96: not wearing a chest wrap 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 96: Chest Wraps 

pli-tv-bi-pm:165.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī asaṅkaccikā gāmaṁ paviseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun enters an inhabited area without wearing her chest wrap, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun enters an inhabited area without wearing her chest wrap, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:165.2
Pali: Chattupāhanavaggo navamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The ninth subchapter on sunshades and sandals is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The nineth sub-chapter on sunshades and sandals is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:166.0.1
Pali: Musāvādavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on lying 

pli-tv-bi-pm:166.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 97. Musāvādasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 97: lying 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 97: Lying 

pli-tv-bi-pm:166.1
Pali: Sampajānamusāvāde pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun lies in full awareness, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun lies in full awareness, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:167.0
Pali: Pācittiya 98. Omasavādasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 98: abusive speech 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 98: Abusive Speech 

pli-tv-bi-pm:167.1
Pali: Omasavāde pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun speaks abusively, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun speaks abusively, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:168.0
Pali: Pācittiya 99. Pesuññasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 99: malicious talebearing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 99: Malicious Talebearing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:168.1
Pali: Bhikkhunipesuññe pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun engages in malicious talebearing between nuns, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun engages in malicious talebearing between nuns, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:169.0
Pali: Pācittiya 100. Padasodhammasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 100: instructing a householder to memorize the Teaching 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 100: Memorizing the Teaching 

pli-tv-bi-pm:169.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anupasampannaṁ padaso dhammaṁ vāceyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun instructs a person who is not fully ordained to memorize the Teaching, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun instructs a person who is not fully ordained to memorize the Teaching, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:170.0
Pali: Pācittiya 101. Paṭhamasahaseyyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 101: lying down with one not fully ordained 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 101: Lying Down With One Not Fully Ordained 

pli-tv-bi-pm:170.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anupasampannāya uttaridirattatirattaṁ sahaseyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun lies down more than two or three nights in the same sleeping place as a woman who is not fully ordained, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun lies down more than two or three nights in the same sleeping place as a person who is not fully ordained, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:171.0
Pali: Pācittiya 102. Dutiyasahaseyyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 102: lying down with a man 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 102: Lying Down With a Man 

pli-tv-bi-pm:171.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī purisena sahaseyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun lies down in the same sleeping place as a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun lies down in the same sleeping place as a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:172.0
Pali: Pācittiya 103. Dhammadesanāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 103: teaching a man alone 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 103: Teaching Someone of the Opposite Gender Alone 

pli-tv-bi-pm:172.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī purisassa uttarichappañcavācāhi dhammaṁ deseyya aññatra viññunā itthiviggahena, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives a teaching of more than five or six sentences to a man, except in the presence of a woman who understands, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives a teaching of more than five or six sentences to a man, except in the presence of a woman who understands, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:173.0
Pali: Pācittiya 104. Bhūtārocanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 104: truthfully announcing a superhuman quality 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 104: Truthfully Announcing Superhuman Attainments 

pli-tv-bi-pm:173.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anupasampannāya uttarimanussadhammaṁ āroceyya, bhūtasmiṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun truthfully tells a person who is not fully ordained of a superhuman quality, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun truthfully tells a person who is not fully ordained of a superhuman quality, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:174.0
Pali: Pācittiya 105. Duṭṭhullārocanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 105: announcing a nun’s grave offense 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 105: Announcing a Grave Offense 

pli-tv-bi-pm:174.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā duṭṭhullaṁ āpattiṁ anupasampannāya āroceyya aññatra bhikkhunisammutiyā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun tells a person who is not fully ordained about a nun’s grave offense, except if the nuns have agreed, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun tells a person who is not fully ordained about a nun’s grave offense, except if the nuns have agreed, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:175.0
Pali: Pācittiya 106. Pathavīkhaṇanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 106: digging the earth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 106: Ordaining Married Girls Under Twelve 

pli-tv-bi-pm:175.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pathaviṁ khaṇeyya vā khaṇāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun digs the earth or has it dug, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun digs the earth or has it dug, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:175.2
Pali: Musāvādavaggo dasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The tenth subchapter on lying is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The first sub-chapter on lying is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:176.0.1
Pali: Bhūtagāmavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on plants 

pli-tv-bi-pm:176.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 107. Bhūtagāmasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 107: destroying plants 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 107:Damaging Plants 

pli-tv-bi-pm:176.1
Pali: Bhūtagāmapātabyatāya pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun destroys a plant, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun destroys plants, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:177.0
Pali: Pācittiya 108. Aññavādakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 108: speaking evasively 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 108: Evasive Speech 

pli-tv-bi-pm:177.1
Pali: Aññavādake, vihesake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun speaks evasively or harasses, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun speaks evasively or harasses, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:178.0
Pali: Pācittiya 109. Ujjhāpanakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 109: complaining 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 109: Complaining 

pli-tv-bi-pm:178.1
Pali: Ujjhāpanake, khiyyanake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun complains or criticizes, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun complains or criticizes, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:179.0
Pali: Pācittiya 110. Paṭhamasenāsanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 110: leaving furniture outside 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 110: Leaving Furniture Outside 

pli-tv-bi-pm:179.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṅghikaṁ mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā bhisiṁ vā kocchaṁ vā ajjhokāse santharitvā vā santharāpetvā vā taṁ pakkamantī neva uddhareyya, na uddharāpeyya, anāpucchaṁ vā gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun takes a bed, a bench, a mattress, or a stool belonging to the Sangha and puts it out in the open or has it put out in the open, and she then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun takes a bed, a bench, a mattress, or a stool belonging to the Sangha and puts it outside or has it put outside, and she then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:180.0
Pali: Pācittiya 111. Dutiyasenāsanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 111: not putting away bedding 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 111: Leaving Bedding Outside 

pli-tv-bi-pm:180.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṅghike vihāre seyyaṁ santharitvā vā santharāpetvā vā taṁ pakkamantī neva uddhareyya, na uddharāpeyya, anāpucchaṁ vā gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun puts out bedding in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has it put out, and she then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun puts out bedding in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has it put out, and she then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:181.0
Pali: Pācittiya 112. Anupakhajjasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 112: encroaching on a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 112: Encroaching on a Monastic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:181.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṅghike vihāre jānaṁ pubbupagataṁ bhikkhuniṁ anupakhajja seyyaṁ kappeyya, “yassā sambādho bhavissati, sā pakkamissatī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If, in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, a nun arranges her sleeping place in a way that encroaches on a nun that she knows arrived there before her, with the intention that anyone who feels crowded will leave, and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, a nun arranges her sleeping place in a way that encroaches on a nun that she knows arrived there before her, with the intention that anyone who feels crowded will leave, and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:182.0
Pali: Pācittiya 113. Nikkaḍḍhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 113: evicting a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 113: Throwing Out a Monastic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:182.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniṁ kupitā anattamanā saṅghikā vihārā nikkaḍḍheyya vā nikkaḍḍhāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, in anger, throws a nun out of a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has her thrown out, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, in anger, throws a nun out of a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has her thrown out, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:183.0
Pali: Pācittiya 114. Vehāsakuṭisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 114: sitting down on an upper story 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 114: The Upper Story of a Hut 

pli-tv-bi-pm:183.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṅghike vihāre uparivehāsakuṭiyā āhaccapādakaṁ mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā abhinisīdeyya vā abhinipajjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun sits down or lies down on a bed or a bench with detachable legs on an upper story in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun sits down or lies down on a bed or a bench with detachable legs on an upper story in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:184.0
Pali: Pācittiya 115. Mahallakavihārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 115: applying excessive materials to a large dwelling 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 115: Applying Materials to a Large Dwelling 

pli-tv-bi-pm:184.1
Pali: Mahallakaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā vihāraṁ kārayamānāya yāva dvārakosā aggaḷaṭṭhapanāya, ālokasandhiparikammāya dvatticchadanassa pariyāyaṁ appaharite ṭhitāya adhiṭṭhātabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a nun is building a large dwelling, then standing where there are no cultivated plants, she may apply two or three layers of roofing material, taking it as far as the doorcase and using it for fixing the door and for treating the window openings. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a nun is building a large dwelling, then standing where there are no cultivated plants, she may apply two or three courses of roofing material, taking it as far as the doorcase and using it for fixing the door and for treating the window openings. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:184.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari appaharitepi ṭhitā adhiṭṭhaheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she applies more than that, even if she stands where there are no cultivated plants, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  If she applies more than that, even if she stands where there are no cultivated plants, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:185.0
Pali: Pācittiya 116. Sappāṇakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 116: pouring water with living beings in it 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 116: Using Water With Living Creatures 

pli-tv-bi-pm:185.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ sappāṇakaṁ udakaṁ tiṇaṁ vā mattikaṁ vā siñceyya vā siñcāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun pours water that she knows contains living beings onto grass or clay, or has it poured, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun pours water that she knows contains living beings onto grass or clay, or has it poured, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:185.2
Pali: Bhūtagāmavaggo ekādasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The eleventh subchapter on plants is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The eleventh sub-chapter on vegetation is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:186.0.1
Pali: Bhojanavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on eating 

pli-tv-bi-pm:186.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 117. Āvasathapiṇḍasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 117: eating excessively at a public guesthouse 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 117: Eating at a Public Guest-House 

pli-tv-bi-pm:186.1
Pali: Agilānāya bhikkhuniyā eko āvasathapiṇḍo bhuñjitabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick eats more than one almsmeal at a public guesthouse, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick eats more than one alms-meal at a public guesthouse, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:186.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari bhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:187.0
Pali: Pācittiya 118. Gaṇabhojanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 118: eating in a group 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 118: Eating in a Group 

pli-tv-bi-pm:187.1
Pali: Gaṇabhojane aññatra samayā pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun eats in a group, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun eats in a group, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:187.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, gilānasamayo, cīvaradānasamayo , cīvarakārasamayo, addhānagamanasamayo, nāvābhiruhanasamayo, mahāsamayo, samaṇabhattasamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: she is sick; it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes; she is traveling; she is on a boat; it is a big occasion; it is a meal given by a monastic. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: she is sick; it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes; she is traveling; she is on a boat; it is a big occasion; it is a meal given by a monastic. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:188.0
Pali: Pācittiya 119. Kāṇamātusikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 119: accepting more than three bowlfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 119: Accepting Two or Three Bowls Full 

pli-tv-bi-pm:188.1
Pali: Bhikkhuniṁ paneva kulaṁ upagataṁ pūvehi vā manthehi vā abhihaṭṭhuṁ pavāreyya, ākaṅkhamānāya bhikkhuniyā dvattipattapūrā paṭiggahetabbā. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes to a family and is invited to take cookies or crackers, she may accept two or three bowlfuls if she wishes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes to a family and is invited to take pastries or baked goods, she may accept two or three bowlfuls if she wishes. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:188.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari paṭiggaṇheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she accepts more than that, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she accepts more than that, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:188.3
Pali: Dvattipattapūre paṭiggahetvā tato nīharitvā bhikkhunīhi saddhiṁ saṁvibhajitabbaṁ, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): If she accepts two or three bowlfuls, she should take it away and share it with the nuns. This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she accepts two or three bowlfuls, she should take it away and share it with the nuns. This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:189.0
Pali: Pācittiya 120. Vikālabhojanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 120: eating at the wrong time 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession  120: Eating at the Wrong Time 

pli-tv-bi-pm:189.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī vikāle khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun eats fresh or cooked food at the wrong time, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun eats fresh or cooked food at the wrong time, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:190.0
Pali: Pācittiya 121. Sannidhikārakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 121: eating stored food 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 121: Storing Food 

pli-tv-bi-pm:190.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sannidhikārakaṁ khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun eats fresh or cooked food that she has stored, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun eats fresh or cooked food that she has stored, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:191.0
Pali: Pācittiya 122. Dantaponasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 122: eating ungiven food 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 122: Eating Unoffered Food 

pli-tv-bi-pm:191.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī adinnaṁ mukhadvāraṁ āhāraṁ āhareyya aññatra udakadantaponā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun eats food that has not been given, except for water and tooth cleaners, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun eats food that has not been given, except for water and tooth cleaners, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:192.0
Pali: Pācittiya 123. Uyyojanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 123: dismissing a nun during almsround 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 123: Sending a Monastic Back from Almsround 

pli-tv-bi-pm:192.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniṁ, “ehāyye, gāmaṁ vā nigamaṁ vā piṇḍāya pavisissāmā”ti tassā dāpetvā vā adāpetvā vā uyyojeyya, “gacchāyye, na me tayā saddhiṁ kathā vā nisajjā vā phāsu hoti, ekikāya me kathā vā nisajjā vā phāsu hotī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun says to a nun, ‘Come, let’s go to the village or town for alms,’ and then, whether she has had food given to her or not, sends her away, saying, ‘Go away, I’m not comfortable talking or sitting with you, but only if I talk and sit by myself,’ and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun says to a monk, ‘Come, let’s go to the village or town for alms,’ and then, whether she has had food given to her or not, sends her away, saying, ‘Go away, I’m not comfortable talking or sitting with you, but only if I talk and sit by myself,’ and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:193.0
Pali: Pācittiya 124. Sabhojanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 124: intruding on a lustful couple 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 124: Intruding on a Couple Enjoying Themselves 

pli-tv-bi-pm:193.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sabhojane kule anupakhajja nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun sits down intruding on a lustful couple, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun sits down intruding on a lustful couple, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:194.0
Pali: Pācittiya 125. Rahopaṭicchannasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 125: sitting with a man in a concealed place 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 125: Sitting in a Concealed Place 

pli-tv-bi-pm:194.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī purisena saddhiṁ raho paṭicchanne āsane nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun sits down in private on a concealed seat with a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun sits down in private on a concealed seat with a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:195.0
Pali: Pācittiya 126. Rahonisajjasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 126: sitting alone with a man 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 126: Sitting in Private 

pli-tv-bi-pm:195.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī purisena saddhiṁ ekenekā raho nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun sits down in private alone with a man, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun sits in private alone with a monk, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:195.2
Pali: Bhojanavaggo dvādasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The twelfth subchapter on eating is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The twevlth sub-chapter on eating is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:196.0.1
Pali: Cārittavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on visiting 

pli-tv-bi-pm:196.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 127. Cārittasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 127: visiting families before a meal 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 127: Visiting Families Before a Meal 

pli-tv-bi-pm:196.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī nimantitā sabhattā samānā santiṁ bhikkhuniṁ anāpucchā purebhattaṁ vā pacchābhattaṁ vā kulesu cārittaṁ āpajjeyya aññatra samayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who has been invited to a meal visits families beforehand or afterwards without informing an available nun, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who has been invited to a meal visits families beforehand or afterwards without informing an available nun, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:196.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, cīvaradānasamayo, cīvarakārasamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:197.0
Pali: Pācittiya 128. Mahānāmasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 128: accepting an invitation of more than four months 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 128: An Invitation for Four Months 

pli-tv-bi-pm:197.1
Pali: Agilānāya bhikkhuniyā catumāsappaccayapavāraṇā sāditabbā aññatra punapavāraṇāya, aññatra niccapavāraṇāya. Tato ce uttari sādiyeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): A nun who is not sick may accept an invitation to ask for requisites for four months. If she accepts one beyond that limit, except if it is a further invitation or a permanent invitation, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A nun who is not sick may accept an invitation to ask for requisites for four months. If she accepts one beyond that limit, except if it is a further invitation or a permanent invitation, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:198.0
Pali: Pācittiya 129. Uyyuttasenāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 129: going to see a mobilized army 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 129: Seeing a Mobilizing Army 

pli-tv-bi-pm:198.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī uyyuttaṁ senaṁ dassanāya gaccheyya aññatra tathārūpappaccayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun goes to see an army, except if there is a suitable reason, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun goes to see an army, except if there is a suitable reason, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:199.0
Pali: Pācittiya 130. Senāvāsasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 130: staying more than three days with an army 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 130: Staying with an Army 

pli-tv-bi-pm:199.1
Pali: Siyā ca tassā bhikkhuniyā kocideva paccayo senaṁ gamanāya, dirattatirattaṁ tāya bhikkhuniyā senāya vasitabbaṁ. Tato ce uttari vaseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun has a reason for going to the army, she may stay with the army for two or three nights. If she stays longer than that, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun has a reason for going to the army, she may stay with the army for two or three nights. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:200.0
Pali: Pācittiya 131. Uyyodhikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 131: seeing an army in action 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 131. Viewing a Military Action 

pli-tv-bi-pm:200.1
Pali: Dirattatirattaṁ ce bhikkhunī senāya vasamānā uyyodhikaṁ vā balaggaṁ vā senābyūhaṁ vā anīkadassanaṁ vā gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is staying with an army for two or three nights goes to a battle, a troop review, a massing of the army, or a troop inspection, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is staying with an army for two or three nights goes to a battle, a troop review, a massing of the army, or a troop inspection, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:201.0
Pali: Pācittiya 132. Surāpānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 132: drinking alcohol 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 132: Drinking Alcohol 

pli-tv-bi-pm:201.1
Pali: Surāmerayapāne pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun drinks this or that kind of alcoholic drink, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun drinks this or that kind of alcoholic drink, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:202.0
Pali: Pācittiya 133. Aṅgulipatodakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 133: tickling 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 133: Tickling 

pli-tv-bi-pm:202.1
Pali: Aṅgulipatodake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun tickles someone, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun tickles someone, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:203.0
Pali: Pācittiya 134. Hasadhammasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 134: playing in water 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 134: Playing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:203.1
Pali: Udake hasadhamme pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun plays in water, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun plays in water, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:204.0
Pali: Pācittiya 135. Anādariyasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 135: disrespect 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 135: Disrespect 

pli-tv-bi-pm:204.1
Pali: Anādariye pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is disrespectful, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is disrespectful, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:205.0
Pali: Pācittiya 136. Bhiṁsāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 136: scaring a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 136: Scaring 

pli-tv-bi-pm:205.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniṁ bhiṁsāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun scares a nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun scares a nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:205.2
Pali: Cārittavaggo terasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The thirteenth subchapter on visiting is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The thirteenth sub-chapter on visiting is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:206.0.1
Pali: Jotivaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on fire 

pli-tv-bi-pm:206.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 137. Jotisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 137: lighting a fire 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 137: Lighting a Fire 

pli-tv-bi-pm:206.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā visibbanāpekkhā jotiṁ samādaheyya vā samādahāpeyya vā aññatra tathārūpappaccayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick lights a fire to warm herself, or has one lit, except if there is a suitable reason, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick lights a fire to warm herself, or has one lit, except if there is a suitable reason, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:207.0
Pali: Pācittiya 138. Nahānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 138: bathing too often 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 138: Bathing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:207.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī orenaddhamāsaṁ nahāyeyya aññatra samayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun bathes at intervals of less than a half-month, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun bathes at intervals of less than a half-month, except on an appropriate occasion, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:207.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo “diyaḍḍho māso seso gimhāna”nti “vassānassa paṭhamo māso” iccete aḍḍhateyyamāsā uṇhasamayo, pariḷāhasamayo, gilānasamayo, kammasamayo, addhānagamanasamayo, vātavuṭṭhisamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the two-and-a-half-month period of summer and the fever season, comprising the last one-and-a-half months of summer and the first month of the rainy season; she is sick; she is working; she is traveling; there is wind and rain. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the two-and-a-half-month period of the hot season and the fever season, comprising the last one-and-a-half months of summer and the first month of the rainy season; she is sick; she is working; she is traveling; there is wind and rain. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:208.0
Pali: Pācittiya 139. Dubbaṇṇakaraṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 139: not making stains on a new robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 139: Making Stains 

pli-tv-bi-pm:208.1
Pali: Navaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā cīvaralābhāya tiṇṇaṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇānaṁ aññataraṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇaṁ ādātabbaṁ nīlaṁ vā kaddamaṁ vā kāḷasāmaṁ vā. Anādā ce bhikkhunī tiṇṇaṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇānaṁ aññataraṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇaṁ navaṁ cīvaraṁ paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a nun gets a new robe, she should apply one of three kinds of stains: blue-green, mud color, or dark brown. If a nun uses a new robe without applying any of the three kinds of stains, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a nun gets a new robe, she should apply one of three kinds of stains: blue-green, mud-color, or dark brown. If a nun uses a new robe without applying any of the three kinds of stains, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:209.0
Pali: Pācittiya 140. Vikappanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 140: using assigned property that has not been relinquished 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 140: Transferring to Another 

pli-tv-bi-pm:209.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhussa vā bhikkhuniyā vā sikkhamānāya vā sāmaṇerassa vā sāmaṇeriyā vā sāmaṁ cīvaraṁ vikappetvā apaccuddhāraṇaṁ paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun herself assigns the ownership of a robe to a monk, a nun, a trainee nun, a novice monk, or a novice nun, and she then uses it without the other first relinquishing it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun herself assigns the ownership of a robe to a monk, to a nun, to a trainee nun, to a novice monk, or to a novice nun, and she then uses it without the other first relinquishing it, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:210.0
Pali: Pācittiya 141. Apanidhāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 141: hiding a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 141: Hiding Robes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:210.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā pattaṁ vā cīvaraṁ vā nisīdanaṁ vā sūcigharaṁ vā kāyabandhanaṁ vā apanidheyya vā apanidhāpeyya vā antamaso hasāpekkhāpi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun hides a nun’s bowl, robe, sitting mat, needle case, or belt, or she has it hidden, even just for a laugh, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun hides a nun’s bowl, robe, sitting mat, needle case, or belt, or she has it hidden, even just for a laugh, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:211.0
Pali: Pācittiya 142. Sañciccasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 142: intentionally killing a living being 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 142: Intentionally Killing Living Creatures 

pli-tv-bi-pm:211.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sañcicca pāṇaṁ jīvitā voropeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun intentionally kills a living being, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun intentionally kills a living being, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:212.0
Pali: Pācittiya 143. Sappāṇakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 143: using water with living beings in it 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 143: Using Water With Living Creatures 

pli-tv-bi-pm:212.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ sappāṇakaṁ udakaṁ paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun uses water that she knows contains living beings, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun uses water that she knows contains living beings, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:213.0
Pali: Pācittiya 144. Ukkoṭanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 144: reopening a settled legal issue 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 144: Reopening a Legal Issue 

pli-tv-bi-pm:213.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ yathādhammaṁ nihatādhikaraṇaṁ punakammāya ukkoṭeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun reopens a legal issue that she knows has been legitimately settled, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun reopens a legal issue that she knows has been legitimately settled, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:214.0
Pali: Pācittiya 145. Theyyasatthasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 145: traveling with thieves 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 145: Travelling With Thieves 

pli-tv-bi-pm:214.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ theyyasatthena saddhiṁ saṁvidhāya ekaddhānamaggaṁ paṭipajjeyya antamaso gāmantarampi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun knowingly travels by arrangement with a group of thieves, even just to the next inhabited area, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun knowingly travels by appointment with a group of thieves, even just to the next village, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.0
Pali: Pācittiya 146. Ariṭṭhasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 146: not giving up a bad view 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 146: Obstructions 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun says, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.2
Pali: “tathāhaṁ bhagavatā dhammaṁ desitaṁ ājānāmi, yathā yeme antarāyikā dhammā vuttā bhagavatā, te paṭisevato nālaṁ antarāyāyā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstacles are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstructive are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.3
Pali: Sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.4
Pali: “māyye evaṁ avaca, mā bhagavantaṁ abbhācikkhi, na hi sādhu bhagavato abbhakkhānaṁ, na hi bhagavā evaṁ vadeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, venerable, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerable, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.5
Pali: anekapariyāyenāyye antarāyikā dhammā antarāyikā vuttā bhagavatā, alañca pana te paṭisevato antarāyāyā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstacles to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstructive things to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.6
Pali: Evañca sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya. 
English (brahmali, published): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her give up that view. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that nun continues as before, the nuns should press her up to three times to make her stop. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.7
Pali: Yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she then gives it up, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.8
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If she does not, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:215.9
Pali: Jotivaggo cuddasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The fourteenth subchapter on fire is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fourteenth sub-chapter on fire is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:216.0.1
Pali: Diṭṭhivaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on view 

pli-tv-bi-pm:216.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 147. Ukkhittasambhogasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 147: living with an ejected nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 147: Living With an Ejected Monastic 

pli-tv-bi-pm:216.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ tathāvādiniyā bhikkhuniyā akaṭānudhammāya taṁ diṭṭhiṁ appaṭinissaṭṭhāya saddhiṁ sambhuñjeyya vā, saṁvaseyya vā, saha vā seyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun lives, does formal meetings, or shares a sleeping place with a nun who she knows is saying such things, who has not made amends according to the rule, and who has not given up that view, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun lives, does formal meetings, or shares a sleeping place with a nun who she knows is saying such things, who has not made amends according to the rule, and who has not given up that view, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.0
Pali: Pācittiya 148. Kaṇṭakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 148: supporting a novice nun with a bad view 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 148: Obstructions and a Novice 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.1
Pali: Samaṇuddesāpi ce evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): Also if a novice nun says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Also if a novice monastic says, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.2
Pali: “tathāhaṁ bhagavatā dhammaṁ desitaṁ ājānāmi, yathā yeme antarāyikā dhammā vuttā bhagavatā, te paṭisevato nālaṁ antarāyāyā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstacles are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstructive are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.3
Pali: Sā samaṇuddesā bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): then the nuns should correct her like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the nuns should correct her like this: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.4
Pali: “māyye, samaṇuddese evaṁ avaca, mā bhagavantaṁ abbhācikkhi, na hi sādhu bhagavato abbhakkhānaṁ, na hi bhagavā evaṁ vadeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerable, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.5
Pali: anekapariyāyenāyye, samaṇuddese antarāyikā dhammā antarāyikā vuttā bhagavatā, alañca pana te paṭisevato antarāyāyā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstacles to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstructive things to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.6
Pali: Evañca sā samaṇuddesā bhikkhunīhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyya, sā samaṇuddesā bhikkhunīhi evamassa vacanīyā: 
English (brahmali, published): If that novice nun continues as before, she should be told: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that novice monastic continues as before, she should be told: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.7
Pali: “ajjatagge te, ayye, samaṇuddese na ceva so bhagavā satthā apadisitabbo, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘From today on you may not refer to the Buddha as your teacher. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  ‘From today on you may not refer to the Buddha as your teacher. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.8
Pali: yampi caññā samaṇuddesā labhanti bhikkhunīhi saddhiṁ dirattatirattaṁ sahaseyyaṁ, sāpi te natthi, 
English (brahmali, published): And, unlike other novices, you can no longer share a sleeping place with the nuns for two or three nights. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And you can no longer share a sleeping place with the monks for two or three nights, as can other novice monastics. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.9
Pali: cara pire, vinassā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): Go! Away with you!’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Go! Away with you!’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:217.10
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ tathānāsitaṁ samaṇuddesaṁ upalāpeyya vā, upaṭṭhāpeyya vā, sambhuñjeyya vā, saha vā seyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun befriends that novice nun, or she is attended on by her, lives with her, or shares a sleeping place with her, even though she knows that she has been expelled in this way, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun supports that novice monastic, or she is attended on by her, lives with her, or shares a sleeping place with her, even though she knows that she has been expelled in this way, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:218.0
Pali: Pācittiya 149. Sahadhammikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 149: not accepting legitimate correction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 149: Legitimate Correction 

pli-tv-bi-pm:218.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhunīhi sahadhammikaṁ vuccamānā evaṁ vadeyya: “na tāvāhaṁ, ayye, etasmiṁ sikkhāpade sikkhissāmi, yāva na aññaṁ bhikkhuniṁ byattaṁ vinayadharaṁ paripucchāmī”ti, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun, when legitimately corrected by the nuns, says, ‘I won’t practice this training rule until I’ve questioned a nun who is an expert on the Monastic Law,’ she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun, when legitimately corrected by the monks, says, I won’t practice this training rule until I’ve questioned a nun who is an expert on the Monastic Law,’ she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:218.2
Pali: Sikkhamānāya, bhikkhave, bhikkhuniyā aññātabbaṁ paripucchitabbaṁ paripañhitabbaṁ, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): A nun who is training should understand, should question, should enquire. This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A nun who is training should understand, should question, should enquire. This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:219.0
Pali: Pācittiya 150. Vilekhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 150: disparaging the training rules 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 150: Annoyance 

pli-tv-bi-pm:219.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī pātimokkhe uddissamāne evaṁ vadeyya: “kiṁ panimehi khuddānukhuddakehi sikkhāpadehi uddiṭṭhehi, yāvadeva kukkuccāya vihesāya vilekhāya saṁvattantī”ti, sikkhāpadavivaṇṇake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When the Monastic Code is being recited, if a nun says, ‘What’s the point of reciting these minor training rules, when they just lead to anxiety, oppression, and annoyance?’ then in disparaging the training rules, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When the Monastic Code is being recited, if a nun says, ‘What’s the point of reciting these minor and insignificant training rules, when they just lead to anxiety, oppression, and annoyance?’ then in disparaging the training rules, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:220.0
Pali: Pācittiya 151. Mohanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 151: deception 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 151: Deception 

pli-tv-bi-pm:220.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī anvaddhamāsaṁ pātimokkhe uddissamāne evaṁ vadeyya: 
English (brahmali, published): During the half-monthly recitation of the Monastic Code, a nun might say, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): During the half-monthly recitation of the Monastic Code, a nun might say, 

pli-tv-bi-pm:220.2
Pali: “idāneva kho ahaṁ, ayye, jānāmi ayampi kira dhammo suttāgato suttapariyāpanno anvaddhamāsaṁ uddesaṁ āgacchatī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Just now did I find out that this rule too has come down in the Monastic Code, is included in the Monastic Code, and comes up for recitation every half-month.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Just now did I find out that this rule too has come down in the Monastic Code, is included in the Monastic Code, and comes up for recitation every half-month.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:220.3
Pali: tañce bhikkhuniṁ aññā bhikkhuniyo jāneyyuṁ nisinnapubbaṁ imāya bhikkhuniyā dvattikkhattuṁ pātimokkhe uddissamāne, ko pana vādo bhiyyo, na ca tassā bhikkhuniyā aññāṇakena mutti atthi, yañca tattha āpattiṁ āpannā, tañca yathādhammo kāretabbo, uttari cassā moho āropetabbo: 
English (brahmali, published): If other nuns know that that nun has previously sat through at least two or three recitations of the Monastic Code, then that nun is not let off because of ignorance, and she is to be dealt with according to the rule. Further, she should be charged with deception: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If other nuns know that that nun has previously sat through at least two or three recitations of the Monastic Code, then that nun is not let off because of ignorance, and she is to be dealt with according to the rule. Further, she should be charged with deception: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:220.4
Pali: “tassā te, ayye, alābhā, tassā te dulladdhaṁ, yaṁ tvaṁ pātimokkhe uddissamāne na sādhukaṁ aṭṭhiṁ katvā manasi karosī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘It’s a loss for you that you don’t pay proper attention during the recitation of the Monastic Code.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): It’s a loss for you that you don’t pay proper attention during the recitation of the Monastic Code.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:220.5
Pali: idaṁ tasmiṁ mohanake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): And for the act of deception, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And for the act of deception, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:221.0
Pali: Pācittiya 152. Pahārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 152: hitting in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 152: Hitting 

pli-tv-bi-pm:221.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā kupitā anattamanā pahāraṁ dadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun hits a nun in anger, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun hits a nun in anger, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:222.0
Pali: Pācittiya 153. Talasattikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 153: raising a hand in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 153: Raising a Hand 

pli-tv-bi-pm:222.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā kupitā anattamanā talasattikaṁ uggireyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun raises a hand in anger against a nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun raises a hand in anger against a nun, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:223.0
Pali: Pācittiya 154. Amūlakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 154: making a groundless accusation 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 154: Groundless Accusation 

pli-tv-bi-pm:223.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniṁ amūlakena saṅghādisesena anuddhaṁseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun groundlessly charges a nun with an offense entailing suspension, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun groundlessly charges a nun with an offense entailing suspension, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:224.0
Pali: Pācittiya 155. Sañciccasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 155: intentionally making a nun anxious 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 155: Intentionally Making a Monastic Anxious 

pli-tv-bi-pm:224.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhuniyā sañcicca kukkuccaṁ upadaheyya, “itissā muhuttampi aphāsu bhavissatī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun intentionally makes a nun anxious, thinking, ‘In this way she will be ill at ease at least for a moment,’ and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun intentionally makes a nun anxious, thinking, In this way she will be ill at ease at least for a moment,’ and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:225.0
Pali: Pācittiya 156. Upassuti sikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 156: eavesdropping 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 156: Eavesdropping 

pli-tv-bi-pm:225.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī bhikkhunīnaṁ bhaṇḍanajātānaṁ kalahajātānaṁ vivādāpannānaṁ upassutiṁ tiṭṭheyya, “yaṁ imā bhaṇissanti, taṁ sossāmī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun eavesdrops on nuns who are arguing and disputing, thinking, ‘I’ll hear what they say,’ and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun eavesdrops on nuns who are arguing and disputing, thinking, ‘I’ll hear what they say,’ and she does so only for this reason and no other, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:225.2
Pali: Diṭṭhivaggo pannarasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The fifteenth subchapter on view is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fifteenth sub-chapter on one who has been ejected is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:226.0.1
Pali: Dhammikavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on legitimate correction 

pli-tv-bi-pm:226.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 157. Kammappaṭibāhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 157: criticizing a legitimate legal procedure 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 157: Obstructing a Legal Procedure 

pli-tv-bi-pm:226.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī dhammikānaṁ kammānaṁ chandaṁ datvā pacchā khīyanadhammaṁ āpajjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives her consent to legitimate legal procedures, and then criticizes them afterwards, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives her consent to legitimate legal procedures, and then criticizes them afterwards, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:227.0
Pali: Pācittiya 158. Chandaṁadatvāgamanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 158: leaving without giving consent 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 158: Leaving Without Giving Consent 

pli-tv-bi-pm:227.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī saṅghe vinicchayakathāya vattamānāya chandaṁ adatvā uṭṭhāyāsanā pakkameyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When the Sangha is in the middle of a discussion, if a nun gets up from her seat and leaves without first giving her consent, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When the Sangha is in the middle of a discussion, if a nun gets up from her seat and leaves without first giving her consent, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:228.0
Pali: Pācittiya 159. Dubbalasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 159: criticizing a robe distribution 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 159: Making Stains 

pli-tv-bi-pm:228.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī samaggena saṅghena cīvaraṁ datvā pacchā khīyanadhammaṁ āpajjeyya, “yathāsanthutaṁ bhikkhuniyo saṅghikaṁ lābhaṁ pariṇāmentī”ti, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun gives out a robe as part of a unanimous Sangha and then criticizes it afterwards, saying, ‘The nuns are diverting the Sangha’s material support according to friendship,’ she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun gives out a robe as part of a unanimous Sangha and then criticizes it afterwards, saying, ‘The nuns are diverting the Sangha’s material gains according to friendship,’ she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:229.0
Pali: Pācittiya 160. Pariṇāmanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 160: diverting gains intended for the Sangha 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 160: Diverting Gains 

pli-tv-bi-pm:229.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī jānaṁ saṅghikaṁ lābhaṁ pariṇataṁ puggalassa pariṇāmeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun diverts to an individual material support that she knows was intended for the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun diverts to an individual material support that she knows was intended for the Sangha, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:230.0
Pali: Pācittiya 161. Ratanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 161: picking up precious things 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 161: Precious Things 

pli-tv-bi-pm:230.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī ratanaṁ vā ratanasammataṁ vā aññatra ajjhārāmā vā ajjhāvasathā vā uggaṇheyya vā uggaṇhāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or she has it picked up, except within a monastery or inside a lodging, she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or she has it picked up, except within a monastery or inside a lodging, she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:230.2
Pali: Ratanaṁ vā pana bhikkhuniyā ratanasammataṁ vā ajjhārāme vā ajjhāvasathe vā uggahetvā vā uggahāpetvā vā nikkhipitabbaṁ, “yassa bhavissati, so harissatī”ti, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): If she picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or she has it picked up, within a monastery or inside a lodging, she should put it aside with the thought, ‘Whoever owns it will come and get it.’ This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If she picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or she has it picked up, within a monastery or inside a lodging, she should put it aside with the thought, ‘Whoever owns it will fetch it.’ This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:231.0
Pali: Pācittiya 162. Sūcigharasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 162: making an inappropriate needle case 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 162: Needle Case 

pli-tv-bi-pm:231.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī aṭṭhimayaṁ vā dantamayaṁ vā visāṇamayaṁ vā sūcigharaṁ kārāpeyya, bhedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a needle case made from bone, ivory, or horn, it is to be destroyed, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a needle case made from bone, ivory, or horn, it is to be destroyed, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:232.0
Pali: Pācittiya 163. Mañcapīṭhasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 163: making an inappropriate bed or bench 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 163: Beds and Benches 

pli-tv-bi-pm:232.1
Pali: Navaṁ pana bhikkhuniyā mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā kārayamānāya aṭṭhaṅgulapādakaṁ kāretabbaṁ sugataṅgulena aññatra heṭṭhimāya aṭaniyā. Taṁ atikkāmentiyā chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is having a new bed or bench made, it is to have legs eight standard fingerbreadths long below the lowest frame. If the legs exceed that, they are to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is having a new bed or bench made, it is to have legs eight standard fingerbreadths long below the lowest frame. If the legs exceed that, they are to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:233.0
Pali: Pācittiya 164. Tūlonaddhasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 164: making an upholstered bed or bench 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 164: Upholstery 

pli-tv-bi-pm:233.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā tūlonaddhaṁ kārāpeyya, uddālanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a bed or a bench made upholstered with cotton down, it is to be stripped, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a bed or a bench made upholstered with cotton down, it is to be stripped, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:234.0
Pali: Pācittiya 165. Kaṇḍuppaṭicchādisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 165: making an oversize itch cloth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 165: Itch Bandage 

pli-tv-bi-pm:234.1
Pali: Kaṇḍuppaṭicchādiṁ pana bhikkhuniyā kārayamānāya pamāṇikā kāretabbā, tatridaṁ pamāṇaṁ, dīghaso catasso vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ dve vidatthiyo. Taṁ atikkāmentiyā chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun is having an itch-covering cloth made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: four standard handspans long and two wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun is having an itch-covering cloth made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: four standard handspans long and two wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:235.0
Pali: Pācittiya 166. Nandasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 166: making an oversize robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 166: Robe Size 

pli-tv-bi-pm:235.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī sugatacīvarappamāṇaṁ cīvaraṁ kārāpeyya, atirekaṁ vā, chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun has a robe made that is the standard robe size or larger, it is to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun has a robe made that is the standard robe measure or larger, it is to be cut down, and she commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:235.2
Pali: Tatridaṁ sugatassa sugatacīvarappamāṇaṁ, dīghaso nava vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ cha vidatthiyo, idaṁ sugatassa sugatacīvarappamāṇanti. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the standard robe size: nine standard handspans long and six wide. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the standard robe measure: nine standard handspans long and six wide. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:235.3
Pali: Dhammikavaggo soḷasamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The sixteenth subchapter on legitimate correction is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sixteenth sub-chapter on obstructing a legal procedure is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:236.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho, ayyāyo, chasaṭṭhisatā pācittiyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the one hundred and sixty-six rules on confession have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the hundred and sixty-six rules on confession have been recited. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:236.2
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:236.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:236.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:236.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:236.6
Pali: Pācittiyā niṭṭhitā. 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on offenses entailing confession is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Chapter on offenses entailing confession is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:237.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīyā 
English (brahmali, published): The rules on acknowledgement 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Acknowledgement 

pli-tv-bi-pm:237.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyyāyo aṭṭha pāṭidesanīyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these eight rules on acknowledgment come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these eight rules on acknowledgment come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:238.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 1. Sappiviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 1: asking for ghee 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Ghee 

pli-tv-bi-pm:238.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā sappiṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya, paṭidesetabbaṁ tāya bhikkhuniyā: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for ghee and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for ghee and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:238.2
Pali: “gārayhaṁ, ayye, dhammaṁ āpajjiṁ asappāyaṁ pāṭidesanīyaṁ, taṁ paṭidesemī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:239.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 2. Telaviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 2: asking for oil 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Oil 

pli-tv-bi-pm:239.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā telaṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya …pe… 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for oil and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for oil and then eats it, … 

pli-tv-bi-pm:239.2
Pali: taṁ paṭidesemīti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): … I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:240.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 3. Madhuviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 3: asking for honey 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Honey 

pli-tv-bi-pm:240.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā madhuṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya …pe… 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for honey and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for honey and then eats it, … 

pli-tv-bi-pm:240.2
Pali: taṁ paṭidesemīti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): … I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:241.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 4. Phāṇitaviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 4: asking for syrup 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Syrup 

pli-tv-bi-pm:241.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā phāṇitaṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya …pe… 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for syrup and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for syrup and then eats it, … 

pli-tv-bi-pm:241.2
Pali: taṁ paṭidesemīti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): … I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:242.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 5. Macchaviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 5: asking for fish 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Fish 

pli-tv-bi-pm:242.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā macchaṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya …pe… 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for fish and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for fish and then eats it, … 

pli-tv-bi-pm:242.2
Pali: taṁ paṭidesemīti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): … I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:243.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 6. Maṁsaviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 6: asking for meat 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Meat 

pli-tv-bi-pm:243.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā maṁsaṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya …pe… 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for meat and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for meat and then eats it, … 

pli-tv-bi-pm:243.2
Pali: taṁ paṭidesemīti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): … I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:244.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 7. Khīraviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 7: asking for milk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Milk 

pli-tv-bi-pm:244.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā khīraṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya …pe… 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for milk and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for milk and then eats it, … 

pli-tv-bi-pm:244.2
Pali: taṁ paṭidesemīti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I’ve done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): … I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:245.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 8. Dadhiviññāpanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 8: asking for curd 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Asking for Curd 

pli-tv-bi-pm:245.1
Pali: Yā pana bhikkhunī agilānā dadhiṁ viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya, paṭidesetabbaṁ tāya bhikkhuniyā: 
English (brahmali, published): If a nun who is not sick asks for curd and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a nun who is not sick asks for curd and then eats it, she must acknowledge it: 

pli-tv-bi-pm:245.2
Pali: “gārayhaṁ, ayye, dhammaṁ āpajjiṁ asappāyaṁ pāṭidesanīyaṁ, taṁ paṭidesemī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:246.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho, ayyāyo, aṭṭha pāṭidesanīyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the eight rules on acknowledgment have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the eight rules on acknowledgment have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:246.2
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:246.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:246.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:246.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:246.6
Pali: Pāṭidesanīyā niṭṭhitā. 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on offenses entailing acknowledgment is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The chapter on offenses entailing acknowledgment is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:247.0
Pali: Sekhiyā 
English (brahmali, published): The rules of training 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Training 

pli-tv-bi-pm:247.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyyāyo, sekhiyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these rules of training come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these rules to be trained in come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:248.0.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on evenly all around 

pli-tv-bi-pm:248.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 1. Parimaṇḍalasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 1: not wearing the sarong evenly all around 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 1: Evenly All Around 

pli-tv-bi-pm:248.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalaṁ nivāsessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will wear my sarong evenly all around,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘I will wear my sarong evenly all around,’ this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:249.0
Pali: Sekhiya 2. Dutiyaparimaṇḍalasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 2: not wearing the upper robe evenly all around 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 2 

pli-tv-bi-pm:249.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalaṁ pārupissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will wear my upper robe evenly all around,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will wear my upper robe evenly all around, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:250.0
Pali: Sekhiya 3. Suppaṭicchannasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 3: not being well-covered 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 3: Well-Covered 

pli-tv-bi-pm:250.1
Pali: Suppaṭicchannā antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-covered while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will walk well-covered in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:251.0
Pali: Sekhiya 4. Dutiyasuppaṭicchannasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 4: not being well-covered 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 4 

pli-tv-bi-pm:251.1
Pali: Suppaṭicchannā antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-covered while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will sit well-covered in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:252.0
Pali: Sekhiya 5. Susaṁvutasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 5: being unrestrained 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 5: Well-Restrained 

pli-tv-bi-pm:252.1
Pali: Susaṁvutā antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-restrained while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will walk well-restrained in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:253.0
Pali: Sekhiya 6. Dutiyasusaṁvutasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 6: being unrestrained 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 6 

pli-tv-bi-pm:253.1
Pali: Susaṁvutā antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-restrained while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will sit well-restrained in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:254.0
Pali: Sekhiya 7. Okkhittacakkhusikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 7: not lowering the eyes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 7: Lowered Eyes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:254.1
Pali: Okkhittacakkhunī antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will lower my eyes while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will walk with lowered eyes in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:255.0
Pali: Sekhiya 8. Dutiya-okkhittacakkhusikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 8: not lowering the eyes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 7 

pli-tv-bi-pm:255.1
Pali: Okkhittacakkhunī antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will lower my eyes while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will sit with lowered eyes in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:256.0
Pali: Sekhiya 9. Ukkhittakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 9: lifting the robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 9: Lifted Robe 

pli-tv-bi-pm:256.1
Pali: Na ukkhittakāya antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lift my robe while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lift my robe while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:257.0
Pali: Sekhiya 10. Dutiya-ukkhittakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 10: lifting the robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 10 

pli-tv-bi-pm:257.1
Pali: Na ukkhittakāya antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lift my robe while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lift my robe while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:257.2
Pali: Parimaṇḍalavaggo paṭhamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The first subchapter on evenly all around is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The first sub-chapter on evenly all around is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:258.0.1
Pali: Ujjagghikavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on laughing loudly 

pli-tv-bi-pm:258.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 11. Ujjagghikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 11: laughing loudly 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 11: Laughing Loudly 

pli-tv-bi-pm:258.1
Pali: Na ujjagghikāya antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not laugh loudly while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not laugh loudly while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:259.0
Pali: Sekhiya 12. Dutiya-ujjagghikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 12: laughing loudly 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 12 

pli-tv-bi-pm:259.1
Pali: Na ujjagghikāya antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not laugh loudly while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not laugh loudly while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:260.0
Pali: Sekhiya 13. Uccasaddasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 13: being noisy 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 13: Not Noisy 

pli-tv-bi-pm:260.1
Pali: Appasaddā antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not be noisy while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not be noisy while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:261.0
Pali: Sekhiya 14. Dutiya-uccasaddasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 14: being noisy 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 14 

pli-tv-bi-pm:261.1
Pali: Appasaddā antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not be noisy while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not be noisy while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:262.0
Pali: Sekhiya 15. Kāyappacālakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 15: swaying the body 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 15: Swaying 

pli-tv-bi-pm:262.1
Pali: Na kāyappacālakaṁ antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my body while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my body while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:263.0
Pali: Sekhiya 16. Dutiyakāyappacālakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 16: swaying the body 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 16 

pli-tv-bi-pm:263.1
Pali: Na kāyappacālakaṁ antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my body while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my body while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:264.0
Pali: Sekhiya 17. Bāhuppacālakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 17: swinging the arms 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 17: Swinging the Arms 

pli-tv-bi-pm:264.1
Pali: Na bāhuppacālakaṁ antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not swing my arms while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not swing my arms while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:265.0
Pali: Sekhiya 18. Dutiyabāhuppacālakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 18: swinging the arms 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 18 

pli-tv-bi-pm:265.1
Pali: Na bāhuppacālakaṁ antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not swing my arms while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not swing my arms while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:266.0
Pali: Sekhiya 19. Sīsappacālakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 19: swaying the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 19: Swaying the Head 

pli-tv-bi-pm:266.1
Pali: Na sīsappacālakaṁ antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my head while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my head while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:267.0
Pali: Sekhiya 20. Dutiyasīsappacālakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 20: swaying the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 20. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:267.1
Pali: Na sīsappacālakaṁ antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my head while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my head while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:267.2
Pali: Ujjagghikavaggo dutiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The second subchapter on laughing loudly is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sub-chapter on laughing loudly is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:268.0.1
Pali: Khambhakatavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on hands on hips 

pli-tv-bi-pm:268.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 21. Khambhakatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 21: hands on hips 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training  21: Arms Akimbo 

pli-tv-bi-pm:268.1
Pali: Na khambhakatā antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not put my hands on my hips while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not walk in inhabited areas with arms akimbo, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:269.0
Pali: Sekhiya 22. Dutiyakhambhakatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 22: hands on hips 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 22. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:269.1
Pali: Na khambhakatā antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not put my hands on my hips while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sit in inhabited areas with arms akimbo, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:270.0
Pali: Sekhiya 23. Oguṇṭhitasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 23: covering the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 23: Covering the Head 

pli-tv-bi-pm:270.1
Pali: Na oguṇṭhitā antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not cover my head while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not cover my head while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:271.0
Pali: Sekhiya 24. Dutiya-oguṇṭhitasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 24: covering the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 24. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:271.1
Pali: Na oguṇṭhitā antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not cover my head while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not cover my head while sitting in inhabited areas; this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:272.0
Pali: Sekhiya 25. Ukkuṭikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 25: squatting on the heels 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 25: Squatting 

pli-tv-bi-pm:272.1
Pali: Na ukkuṭikāya antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not move about while squatting on my heels in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not squat on my heels while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:273.0
Pali: Sekhiya 26. Pallatthikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 26: clasping the knees 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 26: Clasping Knees 

pli-tv-bi-pm:273.1
Pali: Na pallatthikāya antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not clasp my knees while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not clasp my knees while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:274.0
Pali: Sekhiya 27. Sakkaccapaṭiggahaṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 27: not receiving respectfully 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 27: Receiving Respectfully 

pli-tv-bi-pm:274.1
Pali: Sakkaccaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive almsfood respectfully,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive almsfood respectfully, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:275.0
Pali: Sekhiya 28. Pattasaññinīpaṭiggahaṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 28: not receiving with attention on the almsbowl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 28: Receiving with Attention on the Bowl 

pli-tv-bi-pm:275.1
Pali: Pattasaññinī piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive almsfood with attention on the almsbowl,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive almsfood with attention on the almsbowl, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:276.0
Pali: Sekhiya 29. Samasūpakapaṭiggahaṇasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 29: not receiving in the right proportions 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 29: Receiving in Proportion 

pli-tv-bi-pm:276.1
Pali: Samasūpakaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:277.0
Pali: Sekhiya 30. Samatittikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 30: not receiving on an even level 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 30: Receiving Even Level 

pli-tv-bi-pm:277.1
Pali: Samatittikaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive an even level of almsfood,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive an even level of almsfood, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:277.2
Pali: Khambhakatavaggo tatiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The third subchapter on hands on hips is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The third sub-chapter on hands on hips is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:278.0.1
Pali: Sakkaccavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on respectfully 

pli-tv-bi-pm:278.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 31. Sakkaccabhuñjanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 31: not eating respectfully 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 31: Eating Respectfully 

pli-tv-bi-pm:278.1
Pali: Sakkaccaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood respectfully,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive an even level of almsfood, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:279.0
Pali: Sekhiya 32. Pattasaññinībhuñjanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 32: not eating with attention on the almsbowl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 32: Eating with Attention on the Bowl 

pli-tv-bi-pm:279.1
Pali: Pattasaññinī piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood with attention on the almsbowl,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood respectfully, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:280.0
Pali: Sekhiya 33. Sapadānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 33: not eating in order 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 33: Eating in Order 

pli-tv-bi-pm:280.1
Pali: Sapadānaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood in order,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood with attention on the almsbowl, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:281.0
Pali: Sekhiya 34. Samasūpakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 34: not eating in the right proportions 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 34: Even Measure of Curry 

pli-tv-bi-pm:281.1
Pali: Samasūpakaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood in order, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:282.0
Pali: Sekhiya 35. Na thūpakatasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 35: making food into a heap 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 35: Making Food into a Monument 

pli-tv-bi-pm:282.1
Pali: Na thūpakato omadditvā piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat almsfood after making a heap,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:283.0
Pali: Sekhiya 36. Odanappaṭicchādanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 36: covering with rice 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 36: Covering with Rice 

pli-tv-bi-pm:283.1
Pali: Na sūpaṁ vā byañjanaṁ vā odanena paṭicchādessāmi bhiyyokamyataṁ upādāyāti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not cover my curries with rice because I want more,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat almsfood picking from a heap, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:284.0
Pali: Sekhiya 37. Sūpodanaviññattisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 37: requesting rice and bean curry 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 37: Asking for Rice and Curry 

pli-tv-bi-pm:284.1
Pali: Na sūpaṁ vā odanaṁ vā agilānā attano atthāya viññāpetvā bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not request bean curry or rice for myself and then eat it,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not cover my curries with rice because I want more, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:285.0
Pali: Sekhiya 38. Ujjhānasaññinīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 38: finding fault 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 38: Finding Fault 

pli-tv-bi-pm:285.1
Pali: Na ujjhānasaññinī paresaṁ pattaṁ olokessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not look at another’s almsbowl finding fault,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not ask for bean curry or rice for myself and then eat it, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:286.0
Pali: Sekhiya 39. Kabaḷasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 39: making an overlarge mouthful 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 39: Overlarge Mouthful 

pli-tv-bi-pm:286.1
Pali: Nātimahantaṁ kabaḷaṁ karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not make mouthfuls that are too large,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not look at anothers almsbowl finding fault, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:287.0
Pali: Sekhiya 40. Ālopasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 40: not making rounded mouthfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Round Mouthful 

pli-tv-bi-pm:287.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalaṁ ālopaṁ karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will make rounded mouthfuls,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not make a mouthful thats too large, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:287.2
Pali: Sakkaccavaggo catuttho. 
English (brahmali, published): The fourth subchapter on respectfully is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fourth sub-chapter on respectfully is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:288.0.1
Pali: Kabaḷavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on mouthfuls 

pli-tv-bi-pm:288.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 41. Anāhaṭasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 41: opening the mouth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 41: Without Bringing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:288.1
Pali: Na anāhaṭe kabaḷe mukhadvāraṁ vivarissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not open my mouth without bringing a mouthful to it,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will make rounded mouthfuls, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:289.0
Pali: Sekhiya 42. Bhuñjamānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 42: putting whole hand in mouth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 42: Whole Hand 

pli-tv-bi-pm:289.1
Pali: Na bhuñjamānā sabbahatthaṁ mukhe pakkhipissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not put my whole hand in my mouth while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not put my whole hand in my mouth while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:290.0
Pali: Sekhiya 43. Sakabaḷasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 43: speaking with food in mouth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 43: Mouth Full 

pli-tv-bi-pm:290.1
Pali: Na sakabaḷena mukhena byāharissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not speak with food in my mouth,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not speak with food in my mouth, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:291.0
Pali: Sekhiya 44. Piṇḍukkhepakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 44: eating from lifted mouthfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 44: Lifted Lump 

pli-tv-bi-pm:291.1
Pali: Na piṇḍukkhepakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat from a lifted ball of food,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat from a lifted ball of food, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:292.0
Pali: Sekhiya 45. Kabaḷāvacchedakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 45: breaking up mouthfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 45: Breaking Lumps 

pli-tv-bi-pm:292.1
Pali: Na kabaḷāvacchedakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat breaking up mouthfuls,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat breaking up a mouthful, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:293.0
Pali: Sekhiya 46. Avagaṇḍakārakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 46: stuffing the cheeks 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 46: Stuffing Cheeks 

pli-tv-bi-pm:293.1
Pali: Na avagaṇḍakārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat stuffing my cheeks,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat stuffing my cheeks, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:294.0
Pali: Sekhiya 47. Hatthaniddhunakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 47: shaking the hand 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 47: Shaking the Hand 

pli-tv-bi-pm:294.1
Pali: Na hatthaniddhunakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat shaking my hand,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat shaking my hand, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:295.0
Pali: Sekhiya 48. Sitthāvakārakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 48: scattering rice 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 48: Scattering Rice 

pli-tv-bi-pm:295.1
Pali: Na sitthāvakārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat scattering rice,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not scatter rice while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:296.0
Pali: Sekhiya 49. Jivhānicchārakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 49: sticking out the tongue 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 49: Poking the Tongue 

pli-tv-bi-pm:296.1
Pali: Na jivhānicchārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat sticking out my tongue,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat sticking out my tongue, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:297.0
Pali: Sekhiya 50. Capucapukārakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 50: chomping 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 50: Chomping 

pli-tv-bi-pm:297.1
Pali: Na capucapukārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not make a chomping sound while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not make a chomping sound while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:297.2
Pali: Kabaḷavaggo pañcamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The fifth subchapter on mouthfuls is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fifth sub-chapter on mouthfuls is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:298.0.1
Pali: Surusuruvaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on slurping 

pli-tv-bi-pm:298.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 51. Surusurukārakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 51: slurping 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 51: Slurping 

pli-tv-bi-pm:298.1
Pali: Na surusurukārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not slurp while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not slurp while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:299.0
Pali: Sekhiya 52. Hatthanillehakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 52: licking the hand 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 52: Licking the Hands 

pli-tv-bi-pm:299.1
Pali: Na hatthanillehakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lick my hand while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lick my hands while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:300.0
Pali: Sekhiya 53. Pattanillehakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 53: licking the almsbowl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 53: Licking the Bowl 

pli-tv-bi-pm:300.1
Pali: Na pattanillehakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lick my almsbowl while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lick my almsbowl while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:301.0
Pali: Sekhiya 54. Oṭṭhanillehakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 54: licking the lips 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 54: Licking the Lips 

pli-tv-bi-pm:301.1
Pali: Na oṭṭhanillehakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lick my lips while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lick my lips while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:302.0
Pali: Sekhiya 55. Sāmisasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 55: receiving with soiled hand 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 55: Soiling 

pli-tv-bi-pm:302.1
Pali: Na sāmisena hatthena pānīyathālakaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not receive the drinking-water vessel with a hand soiled with food,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not receive the drinking-water vessel with a hand soiled with food, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:303.0
Pali: Sekhiya 56. Sasitthakasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 56: discarding waste water with rice 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 56: Washing Water with Rice 

pli-tv-bi-pm:303.1
Pali: Na sasitthakaṁ pattadhovanaṁ antaraghare chaḍḍessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not discard bowl-washing water containing rice in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not discard bowl-washing water containing rice in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:304.0
Pali: Sekhiya 57. Chattapāṇisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 57: holding a sunshade 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 57: Holding a Sunshade 

pli-tv-bi-pm:304.1
Pali: Na chattapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a sunshade who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a sunshade who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:305.0
Pali: Sekhiya 58. Daṇḍapāṇisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 58: holding a staff 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 58: Holding a staff 

pli-tv-bi-pm:305.1
Pali: Na daṇḍapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a staff who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a staff who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:306.0
Pali: Sekhiya 59. Satthapāṇisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 59: holding a knife 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 59: Holding a Knife 

pli-tv-bi-pm:306.1
Pali: Na satthapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a knife who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a knife who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:307.0
Pali: Sekhiya 60. Āvudhapāṇisikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 60: holding a weapon 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 60: Holding a Weapon 

pli-tv-bi-pm:307.1
Pali: Na āvudhapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a weapon who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a weapon who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:307.2
Pali: Surusuruvaggo chaṭṭho. 
English (brahmali, published): The sixth subchapter on slurping is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sixth sub-chapter on slurping is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:308.0.1
Pali: Pādukavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on shoes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:308.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 61. Pādukasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 61: wearing shoes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 61: Shoes 

pli-tv-bi-pm:308.1
Pali: Na pādukāruḷhassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing shoes who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing shoes who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:309.0
Pali: Sekhiya 62. Upāhanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 62: wearing sandals 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 62: Sandals 

pli-tv-bi-pm:309.1
Pali: Na upāhanāruḷhassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing sandals who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing sandals who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:310.0
Pali: Sekhiya 63. Yānasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 63: sitting in a vehicle 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 63: Vehicle 

pli-tv-bi-pm:310.1
Pali: Na yānagatassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone in a vehicle who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone in a vehicle who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:311.0
Pali: Sekhiya 64. Sayanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 64: lying down 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 64: Lying Down 

pli-tv-bi-pm:311.1
Pali: Na sayanagatassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone lying down who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone lying down who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:312.0
Pali: Sekhiya 65. Pallatthikasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 65: clasping the knees 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 65: Clasping Knees 

pli-tv-bi-pm:312.1
Pali: Na pallatthikāya nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone who is seated clasping their knees and who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone who is seated clasping their knees and who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:313.0
Pali: Sekhiya 66. Veṭhitasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 66: wearing a headdress 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 66: Headdresses 

pli-tv-bi-pm:313.1
Pali: Na veṭhitasīsassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone with a headdress who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing a headdress who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:314.0
Pali: Sekhiya 67. Oguṇṭhitasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 67: covering the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 23: Covering the Head 

pli-tv-bi-pm:314.1
Pali: Na oguṇṭhitasīsassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone with a covered head who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone with a covered head who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:315.0
Pali: Sekhiya 68. Chamāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 68: sitting on the ground 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 68: On the Ground 

pli-tv-bi-pm:315.1
Pali: Na chamāyaṁ nisīditvā āsane nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while sitting on the ground to anyone sitting on a seat who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while sitting on the ground to anyone sitting on a seat who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:316.0
Pali: Sekhiya 69. Nīcāsanasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 69: sitting on a low seat 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 69: Low Seats 

pli-tv-bi-pm:316.1
Pali: Na nīce āsane nisīditvā ucce āsane nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while sitting on a low seat to anyone sitting on a high seat who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while sitting on a low seat to anyone sitting on a high seat who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:317.0
Pali: Sekhiya 70. Ṭhitāsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 70: standing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 70: Standing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:317.1
Pali: Na ṭhitā nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while standing to anyone sitting who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while standing to anyone sitting who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:318.0
Pali: Sekhiya 71. Pacchatogacchantīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 71: walking behind 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 71: Walking Behind 

pli-tv-bi-pm:318.1
Pali: Na pacchato gacchantī purato gacchantassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone walking in front of me who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while walking behind to anyone walking in front who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:319.0
Pali: Sekhiya 72. Uppathenagacchantīsikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 72: walking next to the path 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 72: Off the Path 

pli-tv-bi-pm:319.1
Pali: Na uppathena gacchantī pathena gacchantassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while walking next to the path to anyone walking on the path who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while walking next to the path to anyone walking on the path who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:320.0
Pali: Sekhiya 73. Ṭhitāuccārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 73: defecating while standing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 73: While Standing 

pli-tv-bi-pm:320.1
Pali: Na ṭhitā agilānā uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not defecate or urinate while standing,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not defecate or urinate while standing, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:321.0
Pali: Sekhiya 74. Hariteuccārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 74: defecating on cultivated plants 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 74: On Plants 

pli-tv-bi-pm:321.1
Pali: Na harite agilānā uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā kheḷaṁ vā karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit on cultivated plants,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit on cultivated plants, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:322.0
Pali: Sekhiya 75. Udakeuccārasikkhāpadaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Training 75: defecating in water 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 75: In Water 

pli-tv-bi-pm:322.1
Pali: Na udake agilānā uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā kheḷaṁ vā karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit in water,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit in water, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:322.2
Pali: Pādukavaggo sattamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The seventh subchapter on shoes is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The seventh sub-chapter on shoes is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:323.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho, ayyāyo, sekhiyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the rules of training have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the rules to be trained in have been recited. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:323.2
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:323.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:323.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:323.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:323.6
Pali: Sekhiyā niṭṭhitā. 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on training is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The chapter on training is finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:324.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamathā 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 

pli-tv-bi-pm:324.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyyāyo, satta adhikaraṇasamathā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these seven principles for the settling of legal issues come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these seven principles for the settling of legal issues come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:325.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 1 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 1 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 1 

pli-tv-bi-pm:325.1
Pali: Sammukhāvinayo dātabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): Resolution face-to-face to be applied. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Resolution face-to-face to be applied; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:326.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 2 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 2 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 2 

pli-tv-bi-pm:326.1
Pali: Sativinayo dātabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): Resolution through recollection to be granted. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Resolution through recollection to be granted; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:327.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 3 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 3 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 3 

pli-tv-bi-pm:327.1
Pali: Amūḷhavinayo dātabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): Resolution because of past insanity to be granted. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Resolution because of past insanity to be granted; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:328.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 4 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 4 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 4 

pli-tv-bi-pm:328.1
Pali: Paṭiññāya kāretabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Acting according to what has been admitted. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acting according to what has been admitted; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:329.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 5 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 5 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 5 

pli-tv-bi-pm:329.1
Pali: Yebhuyyasikā. 
English (brahmali, published): Majority decision. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Majority decision; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:330.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 6 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 6 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 6 

pli-tv-bi-pm:330.1
Pali: Tassapāpiyasikā. 
English (brahmali, published): Further penalty. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Further penalty; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:331.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 7 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 7 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 7 

pli-tv-bi-pm:331.1
Pali: Tiṇavatthārakoti. 
English (brahmali, published): Covering over as if with grass. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Covering over as if with grass. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:332.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho ayyāyo satta adhikaraṇasamathā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:332.2
Pali: Tatthāyyāyo pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:332.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:332.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:332.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyyāyo, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bi-pm:332.6
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamathā niṭṭhitā. 
English (brahmali, published): The seven principles for the settling of legal issues are finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The seven principles for the settling of legal issues are finished. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhaṁ kho ayyāyo nidānaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the introduction has been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the introduction has been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.2
Pali: uddiṭṭhā aṭṭha pārājikā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the eight rules on expulsion have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the eight rules on expulsion have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.3
Pali: uddiṭṭhā sattarasa saṅghādisesā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the seventeen rules on suspension have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the seventeen rules on suspension have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.4
Pali: uddiṭṭhā tiṁsa nissaggiyā pācittiyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.5
Pali: uddiṭṭhā chasaṭṭhi satā pācittiyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the one hundred and sixty-six rules on confession have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the hundred and sixty-six rules on confession have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.6
Pali: uddiṭṭhā aṭṭha pāṭidesanīyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the eight rules on acknowledgment have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the eight rules on acknowledgment have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.7
Pali: uddiṭṭhā sekhiyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the rules of training have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the rules to be trained in have been recited; 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.8
Pali: uddiṭṭhā satta adhikaraṇasamathā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.9
Pali: Ettakaṁ tassa bhagavato suttāgataṁ suttapariyāpannaṁ anvaddhamāsaṁ uddesaṁ āgacchati. 
English (brahmali, published): This much has come down and is included in the Monastic Code of the Buddha and comes up for recitation every half-month. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This much has come down and is included in the Monastic Code of the Buddha and comes up for recitation every half-month. 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.10
Pali: Tattha sabbāheva samaggāhi sammodamānāhi avivadamānāhi sikkhitabbanti. 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this everyone should train in unity, in concord, without dispute.” 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this everyone should train in unity, in concord, without dispute.” 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.11
Pali: Vitthāruddeso catuttho. 
English (brahmali, published): The fourth recitation, in detail, is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The recitation of the Conclusion is finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.12
Pali: Bhikkhunipātimokkhaṁ niṭṭhitaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): The Monastic Code for nuns is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Nuns’ rules are finished 

pli-tv-bi-pm:333.13
Pali: Namo tassa bhagavato arahato sammāsambuddhassa 
English (brahmali, published): Homage to the Buddha, the Perfected One, the fully Awakened One. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Homage to the Buddha, the Perfected One, the fully Awakened One 

