pali_english - 律藏/pli-tv-bu-pm
Generated: 2026-06-12T11:05:09.455119+00:00
Group: 律藏/pli-tv-bu-pm
Texts: 1

================================================================================
pli-tv-bu-pm
Root: root/pli/ms/vinaya/pli-tv-bu-pm_root-pli-ms.json

English translation sources:
  - brahmali [published]: translation/en/brahmali/vinaya/pli-tv-bu-pm_translation-en-brahmali.json
  - pasanna [origin/unpublished]: translation/en/pasanna/vinaya/pli-tv-bu-pm_translation-en-pasanna.json
  - sujato [origin/unpublished]: translation/en/sujato/vinaya/pli-tv-bu-pm_translation-en-sujato.json

pli-tv-bu-pm:0.1
Pali: Dvemātikāpāḷi 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Two Codes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:0.2
Pali: Theravāda Bhikkhupātimokkha 
English (brahmali, published): The monks’ rules 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Monks’ rules  
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Code of Conduct for Theravada Monks 

pli-tv-bu-pm:1.0
Pali: Pubbakaraṇaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Preliminaries 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Preliminaries 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Preparations 

pli-tv-bu-pm:1.1
Pali: Sammajjanī padīpo ca, udakaṁ āsanena ca; 
English (brahmali, published): Sweeping and lamps, setting up of water and seats; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Sweeping, lamps, setting up of water and seats; 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): “Sweeping, lamps, water, and seats: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:1.2
Pali: Uposathassa etāni, “pubbakaraṇa”nti vuccati. 
English (brahmali, published): these are to be done before the observance-day ceremony. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): these are to be done before the observance-day ceremony. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): these are called ‘preparations’ for the Uposatha. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:2.0
Pali: Pubbakiccaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): Preliminary duties 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Preliminary Duties 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Preliminary duties 

pli-tv-bu-pm:2.1
Pali: Chanda, pārisuddhi, utukkhānaṁ, bhikkhugaṇanā ca ovādo; 
English (brahmali, published): Consent, purity, knowing the season, and counting the monks, instruction; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Consent, purity, knowing the season, counting the monks, and Instruction; 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Consent, purity, telling the season, counting the monks, and the exhortation: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:2.2
Pali: Uposathassa etāni, “pubbakicca”nti vuccati. 
English (brahmali, published): these are called the preliminary duties of the observance-day ceremony. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): these are the preliminary duties of the observance-day ceremony. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): these are called the ‘preliminary duties’ for the Uposatha. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:3.0
Pali: Pattakallaaṅgā 
English (brahmali, published): The factors of readiness 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The appropriate time 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Factors of Readiness 

pli-tv-bu-pm:3.1
Pali: Uposatho, yāvatikā ca bhikkhū kammappattā; 
English (brahmali, published): It is the observance day, all the monks who should be present have arrived, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The observance-day, all the monks have arrived for the procedure; 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Uposatha has arrived; all monks within the perimeter are present; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:3.2
Pali: Sabhāgāpattiyo ca na vijjanti; 
English (brahmali, published): there are no shared offenses, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): none have shared offenses 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): there are no shared offences; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:3.3
Pali: Vajjanīyā ca puggalā tasmiṁ na honti, “pattakalla”nti vuccati. 
English (brahmali, published): and there is no-one there who should not be present. This is called readiness. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and there are no persons to be avoided. This is called the appropriate time. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): and no legally indicted monk is present: these are called ‘factors of readiness’. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:4.1
Pali: Pubbakaraṇapubbakiccāni samāpetvā desitāpattikassa samaggassa bhikkhusaṅghassa anumatiyā pātimokkhaṁ uddisituṁ ārādhanaṁ karoma. 
English (brahmali, published): “Having completed the duties to be done beforehand and the preliminary duties, with the assent of the monks’ community, one and all, with offenses confessed, I invite the recitation of the Monastic Code.” 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Having complete the duties to be done beforehand and the preliminary duties, with the assent of the Monks’ community, one and all, with offences confessed, I invite the recitation of the Monastic Code. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Having completed the preparations and the preliminary duties, with the agreement of the assembled monks who have confessed any offences, I invite the commencement of the recitation of the Code of Conduct.” 

pli-tv-bu-pm:5.0
Pali: Nidānuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the introduction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Introduction 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Reciting the Introduction 

pli-tv-bu-pm:5.1
Pali: Suṇātu me bhante saṅgho. 
English (brahmali, published): “Please, venerables, I ask the Sangha to listen. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Please, Venerables, I ask the Sangha to listen. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): “Sir, let the Saṅgha listen to me. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:5.2
Pali: Ajjuposatho pannaraso, 
English (brahmali, published): Today is the observance day, the fifteenth. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Today is the observance day, the fifteenth. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Today is the Uposatha on the fifteenth day. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:5.3
Pali: yadi saṅghassa pattakallaṁ, saṅgho uposathaṁ kareyya, pātimokkhaṁ uddiseyya. 
English (brahmali, published): If the Sangha is ready, it should do the observance-day ceremony, it should recite the Monastic Code. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If it seems appropriate to the Sangha, it should do the observance-day ceremony, it should recite the Monastic Code. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If the Sangha is ready, let the Sangha perform the Uposatha and recite the Code of Conduct. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.1
Pali: Kiṁ saṅghassa pubbakiccaṁ? 
English (brahmali, published): What is the preliminary duty of the Sangha? 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): What is the preliminary duty of the Sangha? 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): What is the Saṅgha’s preliminary duty? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.2
Pali: Pārisuddhiṁ āyasmanto ārocetha, 
English (brahmali, published): The venerables should declare their purity. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The venerables should declare their purity. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The venerables must announce their purity, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.3
Pali: pātimokkhaṁ uddisissāmi, 
English (brahmali, published): I will recite the Monastic Code. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will recite the Monastic Code. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): then I shall recite the Code of Conduct. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.4
Pali: taṁ sabbeva santā sādhukaṁ suṇoma manasi karoma. 
English (brahmali, published): Everyone present should listen to it and attend carefully. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Everyone present should listen to it and attend carefully. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): All those present, listen well and pay attention! 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.5
Pali: Yassa siyā āpatti, so āvikareyya, 
English (brahmali, published): Anyone who has committed an offense should reveal it. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Anyone who has committed an offense should reveal it. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Whoever has an offence must declare it, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.6
Pali: asantiyā āpattiyā tuṇhī bhavitabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If you haven’t committed any offense, you should remain silent. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If you haven’t committed any offense, you should remain silent. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): but if there is no offence remain silent. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.7
Pali: tuṇhībhāvena kho panāyasmante “parisuddhā”ti vedissāmi. 
English (brahmali, published): If you are silent, I will regard you as pure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If you are silent, I will regard you as pure. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): By their silence I shall understand that the venerables are pure. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.8
Pali: Yathā kho pana paccekapuṭṭhassa veyyākaraṇaṁ hoti, evamevaṁ evarūpāya parisāya yāvatatiyaṁ anusāvitaṁ hoti. 
English (brahmali, published): Just as one responds when asked individually, so too, an announcement is made three times in this kind of gathering. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Just as one responds when asked individually, so too, an announcement is made three times in this kind of gathering. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): When prompted three times in an assembly such as this, you must answer just as if you were questioned individually. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.9
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu yāvatatiyaṁ anusāviyamāne saramāno santiṁ āpattiṁ nāvikareyya, sampajānamusāvādassa hoti. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk remembers an offense while the announcement is being made up to the third time, but doesn’t reveal it, he is lying in full awareness. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk remembers an offense while the announcement is being made up to the third time, but doesn’t reveal it, he is lying in full awareness. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk, on being prompted three times, remembers an actual offence without revealing it, he is telling a deliberate lie. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.10
Pali: Sampajānamusāvādo kho panāyasmanto antarāyiko dhammo vutto bhagavatā, 
English (brahmali, published): Lying in full awareness is called an obstacle by the Buddha. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Lying in full awareness is called an obstacle by the Buddha. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Deliberate lying has been called an obstructive act by the Buddha. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.11
Pali: tasmā saramānena bhikkhunā āpannena visuddhāpekkhena santī āpatti āvikātabbā, 
English (brahmali, published): A monk who remembers an offense and is seeking purification should therefore reveal it. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A monk who remembers an offense and is seeking purification should therefore reveal it. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Therefore a monk who remembers falling into an actual offence and seeks purity should declare it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:6.12
Pali: āvikatā hissa phāsu hoti. 
English (brahmali, published): When it’s revealed, he will be at ease. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When it’s revealed, he will be at ease. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For declaring brings them ease. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:7.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhaṁ kho āyasmanto nidānaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the introduction has been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the introduction has been recited. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Introduction, venerables, has been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:7.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Regarding this matter, I ask the venerables: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:7.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a second time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:7.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a third time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:7.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The venerables are pure, that is why they are silent. So shall I remember it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:7.6
Pali: Nidānaṁ niṭṭhitaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): The introduction is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The introduction is finished. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Introduction is complete. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:8.0
Pali: Pārājikuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the rules on expulsion 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Expulsion 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Recitation of Expulsion Offences 

pli-tv-bu-pm:8.1
Pali: Tatrime cattāro pārājikā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): These four rules on expulsion come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these four rules on expulsion come up for recitation. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): In regard to this, venerables, these four expulsion offences come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:9.0
Pali: Pārājika 1. Methunadhamma 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 1: sexual intercourse 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 1. Sexual Intercourse 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 1. Sexual Intercourse 

pli-tv-bu-pm:9.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhūnaṁ sikkhāsājīvasamāpanno sikkhaṁ appaccakkhāya dubbalyaṁ anāvikatvā methunaṁ dhammaṁ paṭiseveyya, antamaso tiracchānagatāyapi, pārājiko hoti asaṁvāso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, after taking on the monks’ training and way of life, without first renouncing the training and revealing his weakness, has sexual intercourse, even with a female animal, he is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, after taking on the monks’ training and way of life, without first renouncing the training and revealing his weakness, has sexual intercourse, even with a female animal, he is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk has sexual intercourse, even with an animal. This is after he has taken on the monks’ training and way of life, and he has not disavowed the training and declared his inability to continue. Such a monk is expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:10.0
Pali: Pārājika 2. Adinnādāna 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 2: stealing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 2. Theft 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 2. Theft 

pli-tv-bu-pm:10.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu gāmā vā araññā vā adinnaṁ theyyasaṅkhātaṁ ādiyeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, intending to steal, takes from an inhabited area or from the wilderness what has not been given to him—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, intending to steal, takes from an inhabited area or from the wilderness what has not been given to him—
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk takes what has not been given to him with the intention to steal it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:10.2
Pali: yathārūpe adinnādāne rājāno coraṁ gahetvā haneyyuṁ vā bandheyyuṁ vā pabbājeyyuṁ vā corosi bālosi mūḷhosi thenosīti, tathārūpaṁ bhikkhu adinnaṁ ādiyamāno 
English (brahmali, published): the sort of stealing for which kings, having caught a thief, would beat, imprison, or banish him, saying, ‘You’re a bandit, you’re a fool, you’ve gone astray, you’re a thief’—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the sort of stealing for which kings, having caught a thief, would beat, imprison, or banish him, saying, ‘You’re a bandit, you’re a fool, you’ve gone astray, you’re a thief’—
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): And this is the sort of theft for which kings, having caught a thief, would beat, imprison, or banish him, saying, ‘You’re a bandit, you’re a fool, you’re an idiot, you’re a thief.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:10.3
Pali: ayampi pārājiko hoti asaṁvāso. 
English (brahmali, published): he too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Such a monk is also expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:11.0
Pali: Pārājika 3. Manussaviggaha 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 3: killing a human being 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 3. Murder 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 3. Murder 

pli-tv-bu-pm:11.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sañcicca manussaviggahaṁ jīvitā voropeyya, satthahārakaṁ vāssa pariyeseyya, maraṇavaṇṇaṁ vā saṁvaṇṇeyya, maraṇāya vā samādapeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk intentionally kills a human being or seeks an instrument of death for them or praises death or incites someone to die, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk intentionally kills a human being or seeks an instrument of death for him or praises death or incites someone to die, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk deliberately murders a human being or seeks an instrument of death for them. Or perhaps he praises death or encourages someone to die, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:11.2
Pali: “ambho purisa kiṁ tuyhiminā pāpakena dujjīvitena, mataṁ te jīvitā seyyo”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘My friend, what’s the point of this miserable and difficult life? Death is better for you than life!’—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘My friend, what’s the point of this miserable and difficult life? Death is better for you than life!’—
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Good man, what’s the point of this wretched and difficult life? You’re better off dead than alive!’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:11.3
Pali: iti cittamano cittasaṅkappo anekapariyāyena maraṇavaṇṇaṁ vā saṁvaṇṇeyya, maraṇāya vā samādapeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): thinking and intending thus, if he praises death in many ways or incites someone to die—
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): thinking and intending thus, if he praises death in many ways or incites someone to die—
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): With such thoughts and intentions in mind, he praises death or encourages someone to die. Such a monk is also expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:11.4
Pali: ayampi pārājiko hoti asaṁvāso. 
English (brahmali, published): he too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Such a monk is also expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:12.0
Pali: Pārājika 4. Uttarimanussadhamma 
English (brahmali, published): Expulsion 4: falsely claiming a superhuman quality 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Expulsion 3. Laying False Claim to Superhuman Attainments 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 4. Superhuman Qualities 

pli-tv-bu-pm:12.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu anabhijānaṁ uttarimanussadhammaṁ attupanāyikaṁ alamariyañāṇadassanaṁ samudācareyya “iti jānāmi, iti passāmī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk falsely claims for himself a superhuman quality, a knowledge and vision worthy of the noble ones, saying, ‘This I know, this I see,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk falsely claims for himself a superhuman quality, a knowledge and vision worthy of the noble ones, saying, ‘This I know, this I see,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk falsely claims to possess a superhuman quality, some kind of knowledge and vision worthy of the noble ones. He goes about saying, ‘Thus I know, thus I see,’ even though he has no such knowledge. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:12.2
Pali: tato aparena samayena samanuggāhīyamāno vā asamanuggāhīyamāno vā āpanno visuddhāpekkho evaṁ vadeyya “ajānamevaṁ āvuso avacaṁ jānāmi, apassaṁ passāmi, tucchaṁ musā vilapi”nti, 
English (brahmali, published): but after some time—whether he is questioned or not, but having committed the offense and seeking purification—should say: ‘Not knowing I said that I know, not seeing that I see; what I said was empty and false,’ then, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): but after some time—whether he is questioned or not, but having committed the offense and seeking purification—should say: ‘Not knowing I said that I know, not seeing that I see; what I said was empty and false,’ then, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Some time later he seeks to be cleansed of the offense. Regardless of whether he is questioned or not, he says: ‘Not knowing I said I know, not seeing I said I see. What I said was hollow and false.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:12.3
Pali: aññatra adhimānā, 
English (brahmali, published): except if it is due to overestimation, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): except if it is due to overestimation, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Unless it is due to overestimation, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:12.4
Pali: ayampi pārājiko hoti asaṁvāso. 
English (brahmali, published): he too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he too is expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): such a monk is also expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto cattāro pārājikā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the four rules on expulsion have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, the four rules on expulsion have been recited. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The four expulsion offences have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.2
Pali: Yesaṁ bhikkhu aññataraṁ vā aññataraṁ vā āpajjitvā na labhati bhikkhūhi saddhiṁ saṁvāsaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk commits any one of them, he is no longer part of the community of monks. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk commits any one of them, he is no longer part of the community of monks. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Any monk who has fallen into one or other of these offences does not get to live in communion with other monks. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.3
Pali: yathā pure, tathā pacchā, pārājiko hoti asaṁvāso. 
English (brahmali, published): As before, so after: he’s expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): As before, so after: he’s expelled and excluded from the community. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Their status is unchanged after confessing: they are expelled and excluded from the community. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.4
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Regarding this matter, I ask the venerables: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.5
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a second time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.6
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a third time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.7
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The venerables are pure, that is why they are silent. So shall I remember it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:13.8
Pali: Pārājikaṁ niṭṭhitaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): The offenses entailing expulsion are finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The offenses entailing expulsion are finished. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The expulsion offences are complete. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:14.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the rules of suspension 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Suspension 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Recitation of Suspension Offences 

pli-tv-bu-pm:14.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto terasa saṅghādisesā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these thirteen rules on suspension come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these thirteen rules on suspension come up for recitation. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): And now, venerables, these thirteen suspension offences come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:15.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 1. Sukkavissaṭṭhi 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 1: masturbation 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 1: Masturbation 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 1. Emitting Semen 

pli-tv-bu-pm:15.1
Pali: Sañcetanikā sukkavissaṭṭhi aññatra supinantā saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): Intentional emission of semen, except while dreaming, is an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Intentional emission of semen, except while dreaming, is an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Intentional ejaculation, except while dreaming, results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:16.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 2. Kāyasaṁsagga 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 2: physical contact with a woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 2: Physical Contact 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 2. Groping 

pli-tv-bu-pm:16.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu otiṇṇo vipariṇatena cittena mātugāmena saddhiṁ kāyasaṁsaggaṁ samāpajjeyya hatthaggāhaṁ vā veṇiggāhaṁ vā aññatarassa vā aññatarassa vā aṅgassa parāmasanaṁ, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, overcome by lust and with a distorted mind, makes physical contact with a woman—holding her hand or hair, or touching any part of her body—he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, overcome by lust and with a distorted mind, makes physical contact with a woman—holding her hand or hair, or touching any part of her body—he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk overwhelmed with lust gropes a female, holding her hand or hair, or touching any part of her body. This results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:17.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 3. Duṭṭhullavācā 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 3: indecent speech 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 1: Indecent Speech 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 3. Dirty Talk 

pli-tv-bu-pm:17.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu otiṇṇo vipariṇatena cittena mātugāmaṁ duṭṭhullāhi vācāhi obhāseyya yathā taṁ yuvā yuvatiṁ methunupasaṁhitāhi, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, overcome by lust and with a distorted mind, speaks indecent words to a woman, as a young man might to a young woman and referring to sexual intercourse, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, overcome by lust and with a distorted mind, speaks indecent words to a woman, as a young man might to a young woman and referring to sexual intercourse, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk overwhelmed with lust talks dirty to a female in a lewd way, like a boy with a girl.  This results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:18.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 4. Attakāmapāricariya 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 4: encouraging a woman to satisfy one’s desires 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 4: Encouraging Someone to Serve One’s Desires 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 4. Serving His Desires 

pli-tv-bu-pm:18.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu otiṇṇo vipariṇatena cittena mātugāmassa santike attakāmapāricariyāya vaṇṇaṁ bhāseyya “etadaggaṁ bhagini pāricariyānaṁ yā mādisaṁ sīlavantaṁ kalyāṇadhammaṁ brahmacāriṁ etena dhammena paricareyyā”ti methunupasaṁhitena, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, overcome by lust and with a distorted mind, encourages a woman to satisfy his own desires, saying, ‘Sister, she provides the highest service who in this way satisfies one like me, who is virtuous, celibate, and of good character,’ and if it is a reference to sexual intercourse, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, overcome by lust and with a distorted mind, encourages a woman to satisfy his own desires, saying, ‘Sister, she provides the highest service who in this way satisfies one like me, who is virtuous, celibate, and of good character,’ and if it is a reference to sexual intercourse, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk overwhelmed with lust speaks to a female in praise of serving his own desires. Referring to sexual intercourse, he says, ‘Sister, the highest service is to perform such a service for one like me, who is virtuous, chaste, and of good character.’ This results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:19.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 5. Sañcaritta 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 5: matchmaking 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 5: Matchmaking 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 5. Acting as a Matchmaker 

pli-tv-bu-pm:19.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sañcarittaṁ samāpajjeyya itthiyā vā purisamatiṁ purisassa vā itthimatiṁ, jāyattane vā jārattane vā, antamaso taṅkhaṇikāyapi, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk acts as a matchmaker, conveying a man’s intention to a woman or a woman’s intention to a man, for marriage or for an affair, even if just a brief one, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk acts as a matchmaker, conveying a man’s intention to a woman or a woman’s intention to a man, for marriage or for an affair, even if just a brief one, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk acts as a matchmaker, communicating the intentions of a man to a woman, or a woman to a man. Regardless of whether it is for marriage or for an affair, or even just for a brief encounter, it results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:20.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 6. Kuṭikāra 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 6: building a hut inappropriately 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 6: Building a Hut 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 6. Building a Hut 

pli-tv-bu-pm:20.1
Pali: Saññācikāya pana bhikkhunā kuṭiṁ kārayamānena assāmikaṁ attuddesaṁ pamāṇikā kāretabbā, tatridaṁ pamāṇaṁ, dīghaso dvādasa vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ sattantarā, 
English (brahmali, published): When a monk, by means of begging, builds a hut without a sponsoring owner and intended for himself, it is to be no more than twelve standard handspans long and seven wide inside. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a monk, by means of begging, builds a hut without a sponsoring owner and intended for himself, it is to be no more than twelve standard handspans long and seven wide inside. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk is building a hut for his own use using materials he has begged himself, without a sponsor. He must build it within the specified measurements: twelve spans long and seven spans wide. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:20.2
Pali: bhikkhū abhinetabbā vatthudesanāya, tehi bhikkhūhi vatthu desetabbaṁ anārambhaṁ saparikkamanaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): He must have monks approve a site where no harm will be done and which has space on all sides. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): He must have monks approve a site where no harm will be done and which has space on all sides. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): He must bring monks to appoint the site. Those monks must appoint a site where no harm will be done and which has sufficient space on all sides. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:20.3
Pali: Sārambhe ce bhikkhu vatthusmiṁ aparikkamane saññācikāya kuṭiṁ kāreyya, bhikkhū vā anabhineyya vatthudesanāya, pamāṇaṁ vā atikkāmeyya, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, by means of begging, builds a hut on a site where harm will be done and which lacks space on all sides, or he does not have monks approve the site, or he exceeds the right size, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, by means of begging, builds a hut on a site where harm will be done and which lacks space on all sides, or he does not have monks approve the site, or he exceeds the right size, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If a monk builds a hut using materials he has begged himself on a site where harm will be done and which lacks sufficient space on all sides, or he does not bring monks to appoint the site, or he exceeds the specified measurements, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:21.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 7. Vihārakāra 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 7: building a dwelling inappropriately 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 7: Building a Dwelling 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 7. Building a Large Dwelling 

pli-tv-bu-pm:21.1
Pali: Mahallakaṁ pana bhikkhunā vihāraṁ kārayamānena sassāmikaṁ attuddesaṁ bhikkhū abhinetabbā vatthudesanāya, 
English (brahmali, published): When a monk builds a large dwelling with a sponsoring owner and intended for himself, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a monk builds a large dwelling with a sponsoring owner and intended for himself, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk is building a large dwelling for his own use with a sponsor. He must bring monks to appoint the site. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:21.2
Pali: tehi bhikkhūhi vatthu desetabbaṁ anārambhaṁ saparikkamanaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): he must have monks approve a site where no harm will be done and which has space on all sides. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he must have monks approve a site where no harm will be done and which has space on all sides. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): They must appoint a site where no harm will be done and which has sufficient space on all sides. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:21.3
Pali: Sārambhe ce bhikkhu vatthusmiṁ aparikkamane mahallakaṁ vihāraṁ kāreyya, bhikkhū vā anabhineyya vatthudesanāya, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk builds a large dwelling on a site where harm will be done and which lacks space on all sides, or he does not have monks approve the site, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk builds a large dwelling on a site where harm will be done and which lacks space on all sides, or he does not have monks approve the site, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If a monk builds a large dwelling on a site where harm will be done and which lacks sufficient space on all sides, or he does not bring monks to appoint the site, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:22.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 8. Duṭṭhadosa 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 8: making a groundless accusation out of anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 8: Making a Groundless Accusation Out of Anger 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 8. Angry and Upset 

pli-tv-bu-pm:22.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ duṭṭho doso appatīto amūlakena pārājikena dhammena anuddhaṁseyya “appeva nāma naṁ imamhā brahmacariyā cāveyya”nti, 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who is angry and displeased groundlessly charges a monk with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make him leave the monastic life, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who is angry and displeased groundlessly charges a monk with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make him leave the monastic life, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk who is angry and upset groundlessly accuses another monk of an offense entailing expulsion, hoping to make him fall away from the monastic life. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:22.2
Pali: tato aparena samayena samanuggāhīyamāno vā asamanuggāhīyamāno vā amūlakañceva taṁ adhikaraṇaṁ hoti, bhikkhu ca dosaṁ patiṭṭhāti, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): and then after some time, whether he is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is groundless, and he admits to his ill will, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and then after some time, whether he is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is groundless, and he admits to his ill will, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Some time later, regardless of whether he is questioned or not, if it becomes clear that the legal issue is groundless, and that the monk acted out of anger, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:23.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 9. Aññabhāgiya 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 9: making a groundless accusation out of anger, using a pretext 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 9: Making an Accusation Out of Anger on an Irrelevant Pretext 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 9. Irrelevant Pretext 

pli-tv-bu-pm:23.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ duṭṭho doso appatīto aññabhāgiyassa adhikaraṇassa kiñcidesaṁ lesamattaṁ upādāya pārājikena dhammena anuddhaṁseyya “appeva nāma naṁ imamhā brahmacariyā cāveyya”nti, 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who is angry and displeased, uses an unrelated legal issue as a pretext to charge a monk with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make him leave the monastic life, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who is angry and displeased, uses an unrelated legal issue as a pretext to charge a monk with an offense entailing expulsion, aiming to make him leave the monastic life,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk who is angry and upset uses some irrelevant pretext to accuse another monk of an offense entailing expulsion, hoping to make him fall away from the monastic life. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:23.2
Pali: tato aparena samayena samanuggāhīyamāno vā asamanuggāhīyamāno vā aññabhāgiyañceva taṁ adhikaraṇaṁ hoti kocideso lesamatto upādinno, bhikkhu ca dosaṁ patiṭṭhāti, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): and then after some time, whether he is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is unrelated and was used as a pretext, and he admits to his ill will, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and then after some time, whether he is questioned or not, it is clear that the legal issue is unrelated and was used as a pretext, and he admits to his ill will, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Some time later, regardless of whether he is questioned or not, if it becomes clear that the legal issue is irrelevant, and that the monk acted out of anger, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 10. Saṅghabheda 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 10: causing a schism in the Sangha 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 10: Causing Schism in the Saṅgha 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 10. Schism in the Saṅgha 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu samaggassa saṅghassa bhedāya parakkameyya, bhedanasaṁvattanikaṁ vā adhikaraṇaṁ samādāya paggayha tiṭṭheyya, so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk pursues schism in a united Sangha or persists in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism, the monks should correct him like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk pursues schism in a united Sangha or persists in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism, the monks should correct him like this, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk agitates for a schism in a united Saṅgha or persists in taking up a legal issue leading to schism. The monks should say to him, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.2
Pali: “māyasmā samaggassa saṅghassa bhedāya parakkami, bhedanasaṁvattanikaṁ vā adhikaraṇaṁ samādāya paggayha aṭṭhāsi, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, don’t pursue schism in the united Sangha or persist in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, don’t pursue schism in the united Sangha or persist in taking up a legal issue conducive to schism. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, don’t agitate for a schism in the unanimous Order or persist in taking up a legal issue leading to schism. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.3
Pali: sametāyasmā saṅghena, samaggo hi saṅgho sammodamāno avivadamāno ekuddeso phāsu viharatī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Join with the Order, for a unanimous Order—in concord, in harmony, reciting as one—lives at ease.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.4
Pali: evañca so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi vuccamāno tatheva paggaṇheyya, so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbo tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If that monk still continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.5
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamāno taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:24.6
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If he does not stop, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If not, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 11. Bhedānuvattaka 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 11: siding with a schismatic 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 11: Following a Schismatic 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 11. Following a Schismatic 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.1
Pali: Tasseva kho pana bhikkhussa bhikkhū honti anuvattakā vaggavādakā eko vā dve vā tayo vā, te evaṁ vadeyyuṁ 
English (brahmali, published): That monk may have one, two, or three monks who side with him and support him, and they may say, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): That monk may have one, two, or three monks who side with him and support him, and they may say, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But that monk may have one, two, or three monks who are his followers and speak on behalf of his faction. They may say, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.2
Pali: “māyasmanto etaṁ bhikkhuṁ kiñci avacuttha, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerables, don’t correct this monk. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, don’t correct this monk. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerables, don’t correct this monk. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.3
Pali: dhammavādī ceso bhikkhu, vinayavādī ceso bhikkhu, 
English (brahmali, published): He speaks in accordance with the Teaching and the training. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): He speaks in accordance with the Teaching and the training. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): He speaks in accordance with the Teaching and the Training. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.4
Pali: amhākañceso bhikkhu chandañca ruciñca ādāya voharati, jānāti, no bhāsati, amhākampetaṁ khamatī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): And he speaks with our consent and approval. He knows about us and speaks for us, and we approve of this.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And he speaks with our consent and approval. He knows about us and speaks for us, and we approve of this.” 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): And he conveys our wish and approval. He knows us and speaks for us, and we accept this.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.5
Pali: te bhikkhū bhikkhūhi evamassu vacanīyā 
English (brahmali, published): The monks should correct those monks like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The monks should correct those monks like this: 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The monks should say to those monks, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.6
Pali: “māyasmanto evaṁ avacuttha, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, venerables, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerables, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerables, please don’t say that. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.7
Pali: na ceso bhikkhu dhammavādī, na ceso bhikkhu vinayavādī, 
English (brahmali, published): this monk speaks contrary to the Teaching and the training. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): this monk speaks contrary to the Teaching and the training. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): This monk does not speak in accordance with the Teaching or the Training. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.8
Pali: māyasmantānampi saṅghabhedo ruccittha, 
English (brahmali, published): And don’t consent to schism in the Sangha. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And don’t consent to schism in the Sangha. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Please don’t promote schism in the Order. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.9
Pali: sametāyasmantānaṁ saṅghena, samaggo hi saṅgho sammodamāno avivadamāno ekuddeso phāsu viharatī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Stay with the Sangha, for a united Sangha—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—is at ease.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Join with the Order, for a unanimous Order—in concord, in harmony, having a joint recitation—lives in comfort.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.10
Pali: evañca te bhikkhū bhikkhūhi vuccamānā tatheva paggaṇheyyuṁ, te bhikkhū bhikkhūhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbā tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If those monks continue as before, the monks should press them up to three times to make them stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If those monks still continue as before, the monks should press them up to three times to make them stop. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If those monks still continue as before, the monks should press them up to three times to make them stop. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.11
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamānā taṁ paṭinissajjeyyuṁ, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If they then stop, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If they then stops, all is well. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If they then stop, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:25.12
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyyuṁ, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If they do not stop, they commit an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): they commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If not, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 12. Dubbaca 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 12: being difficult to correct 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 12: Difficult to Correct 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 12. Incorrigible 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.1
Pali: Bhikkhu paneva dubbacajātiko hoti uddesapariyāpannesu sikkhāpadesu bhikkhūhi sahadhammikaṁ vuccamāno attānaṁ avacanīyaṁ karoti 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is difficult to correct, and he makes himself incorrigible when legitimately corrected by the monks concerning the training rules that are recited, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is difficult to correct, and he makes himself incorrigible when legitimately corrected by the monks concerning the training rules that are recited, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But then a monk is incorrigible. When he is justly admonished by the monks concerning the training rules that are recited, he closes himself off from admonishment, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.2
Pali: “mā maṁ āyasmanto kiñci avacuttha kalyāṇaṁ vā pāpakaṁ vā, ahampāyasmante na kiñci vakkhāmi kalyāṇaṁ vā pāpakaṁ vā, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerables, don’t say anything to me, either good or bad, and I won’t say anything to you, either good or bad. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, don’t say anything to me, either good or bad, and I won’t say anything to you, either good or bad. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerables, don’t say anything to me, either good or bad, and I won’t say anything to you, either good or bad. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.3
Pali: viramathāyasmanto mama vacanāyā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Please refrain from correcting me,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Please refrain from correcting me,” 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Please refrain from admonishing me.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.4
Pali: so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Then the monks should correct him in this way: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.5
Pali: “māyasmā attānaṁ avacanīyaṁ akāsi, vacanīyamevāyasmā attānaṁ karotu, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Be easy to correct, venerable, not incorrigible. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Be easy to correct, Venerable, not incorrigible. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, please don’t close yourself off from admonishment. Open yourself up for admonishment. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.6
Pali: āyasmāpi bhikkhū vadatu sahadhammena, bhikkhūpi āyasmantaṁ vakkhanti sahadhammena, 
English (brahmali, published): And please give legitimate correction to the monks, and the monks will do the same to you. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And please give legitimate correction to the monks, and the monks will do the same to you. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Please give just admonishment to the monks, and the monks will do the same for you. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.7
Pali: evaṁ saṁvaddhā hi tassa bhagavato parisā yadidaṁ aññamaññavacanena aññamaññavuṭṭhāpanenā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): For it’s in this way that the Buddha’s community has grown, that is, through mutual correction and mutual clearing of offenses.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): For it’s in this way that the Buddha’s community has grown, that is, through mutual correction and mutual clearing of offenses.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For it is in this way that the Master’s community prospers, that is, through mutual admonishment and mutual resolution.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.8
Pali: evañca so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi vuccamāno tatheva paggaṇheyya, so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbo tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If that monk still continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.9
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamāno taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:26.10
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If he does not stop, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If not, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.0
Pali: Saṅghādisesa 13. Kuladūsaka 
English (brahmali, published): Suspension 13: being a corrupter of families 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Suspension 13: Corrupters of Families 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 13. A Corrupter of Families 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.1
Pali: Bhikkhu paneva aññataraṁ gāmaṁ vā nigamaṁ vā upanissāya viharati kuladūsako pāpasamācāro, tassa kho pāpakā samācārā dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, kulāni ca tena duṭṭhāni dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who lives supported by a village or town is a corrupter of families and badly behaved, and his bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by him have been seen and heard about, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who lives supported by a village or town is a corrupter of families and badly behaved, and his bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by his have been seen and heard about, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But then a monk who lives supported by a village or town is a corrupter of families and badly behaved. His bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by him have been seen and heard about. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.2
Pali: so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The monks should correct him in this way: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.3
Pali: “āyasmā kho kuladūsako pāpasamācāro, āyasmato kho pāpakā samācārā dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, kulāni cāyasmatā duṭṭhāni dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, pakkamatāyasmā imamhā āvāsā, alaṁ te idha vāsenā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, you are a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you have stayed here long enough.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.4
Pali: evañca so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi vuccamāno te bhikkhū evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If he replies, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he replies, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.5
Pali: “chandagāmino ca bhikkhū, dosagāmino ca bhikkhū, mohagāmino ca bhikkhū, bhayagāmino ca bhikkhū tādisikāya āpattiyā ekaccaṁ pabbājenti, ekaccaṁ na pabbājentī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘You’re acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear. Because of this sort of offense, you only banish some, but not others,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘You’re acting out of desire, ill will, confusion, and fear. Because of this sort of offense, you only banish some, but not others,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘You monks are biased by favoritism, ill-will, confusion, and fear; that’s why you banish some of those who commit this kind of offense, but not others.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.6
Pali: so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The monks should correct him in this way: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.7
Pali: “māyasmā evaṁ avaca, na ca bhikkhū chandagāmino, na ca bhikkhū dosagāmino, na ca bhikkhū mohagāmino, na ca bhikkhū bhayagāmino, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, venerable, the monks are not acting out of favoritism, ill will, confusion, and fear. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerable, the nuns are not acting out of desire, ill will, confusion, and fear. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Don’t say that, venerable! The monks are not biased by favoritism, ill-will, confusion, and fear. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.8
Pali: āyasmā kho kuladūsako pāpasamācāro, āyasmato kho pāpakā samācārā dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, kulāni cāyasmatā duṭṭhāni dissanti ceva suyyanti ca, pakkamatāyasmā imamhā āvāsā, alaṁ te idha vāsenā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, you’re a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you’ve stayed here long enough.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Venerable, you are a corrupter of families and badly behaved. Your bad behavior has been seen and heard about, and the families corrupted by you have been seen and heard about. Leave this monastery; you have stayed here long enough.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.9
Pali: evañca so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi vuccamāno tatheva paggaṇheyya, so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbo tassa paṭinissaggāya, 
English (brahmali, published): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If that monk still continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.10
Pali: yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamāno taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he then stops, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:27.11
Pali: no ce paṭinissajjeyya, saṅghādiseso. 
English (brahmali, published): If he does not stop, he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he commits an offense entailing suspension. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If not, this results in suspension. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto terasa saṅghādisesā dhammā nava paṭhamāpattikā, cattāro yāvatatiyakā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the thirteen rules on suspension have been recited, nine being immediate offenses, four after the third announcement. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, the thirteen rules on suspension have been recited, nine being immediate offenses, four after the third announcement. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The thirteen suspension offences have been recited. Nine of them result in an offence right away, while four result in an offence upon the third admonishment. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.2
Pali: Yesaṁ bhikkhu aññataraṁ vā aññataraṁ vā āpajjitvā yāvatīhaṁ jānaṁ paṭicchādeti, tāvatīhaṁ tena bhikkhunā akāmā parivatthabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk commits any one of them, he is to undergo probation for the same number of days as he knowingly concealed that offense. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk commits any one of them, he is to undergo probation for the same number of days as he knowingly concealed that offense. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Any monk who has fallen into one or other of these offences must, like it or not, undergo probation for as many days as he concealed the offence. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.3
Pali: Parivutthaparivāsena bhikkhunā uttari chārattaṁ bhikkhumānattāya paṭipajjitabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): When this is completed, he must undertake the trial period for a further six days. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When this is completed, he must undertake the trial period for a further six days. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): When probation is completed, that monk must undergo a further trial period of six days. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.4
Pali: ciṇṇamānatto bhikkhu yattha siyā vīsatigaṇo bhikkhusaṅgho, tattha so bhikkhu abbhetabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): When this is completed, he is to be rehabilitated wherever there is a sangha of at least twenty monks. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When this is completed, he is to be rehabilitated wherever there is a sangha of at least twenty monks. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): When the trial period is over, that monk may be rehabilitated wherever there is a Saṅgha of at least twenty monks. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.5
Pali: Ekenapi ce ūno vīsatigaṇo bhikkhusaṅgho taṁ bhikkhuṁ abbheyya, so ca bhikkhu anabbhito, te ca bhikkhū gārayhā, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): If that monk is rehabilitated by a sangha of even one less than twenty, that monk is not rehabilitated and those monks are at fault. This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk is rehabilitated by a sangha of even one less than twenty, that monk is not rehabilitated and those monks are at fault. This is the proper procedure. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If a Saṅgha of even one fewer than twenty monks should try to rehabilitate that monk, he is not rehabilitated and those monks are at fault. This is the proper procedure in this case. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.6
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Regarding this matter, I ask the venerables: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.7
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a second time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.8
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a third time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.9
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The venerables are pure, that is why they are silent. So shall I remember it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:28.10
Pali: Saṅghādiseso niṭṭhito 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on offenses entailing suspension is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The chapter on offenses entailing suspension is finished. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The suspension offences are complete. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:29.0
Pali: Aniyatuddeso 
English (brahmali, published): The recitation of the undetermined rules 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Undetermined Rules 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Recitation of Undetermined Offences 

pli-tv-bu-pm:29.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto dve aniyatā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these two undetermined rules come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these two undetermined rules come up for recitation. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): And now, venerables, these two undetermined offences come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:30.0
Pali: Aniyata 1. Paṭhamaaniyata 
English (brahmali, published): Undetermined 1: sitting with a woman in a concealed place 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Undetermined 1: First Undetermined Offence 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 1. The First Undetermined Rule 

pli-tv-bu-pm:30.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mātugāmena saddhiṁ eko ekāya raho paṭicchanne āsane alaṅkammaniye nisajjaṁ kappeyya, tamenaṁ saddheyyavacasā upāsikā disvā 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down in private alone with a woman on a concealed seat suitable for the deed, and a trustworthy female lay follower sees him 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits alone with a woman on a private and concealed seat suitable for action, and a trustworthy female lay follower sees him 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk sits alone with a woman on a private and concealed seat suitable for having sex. A trustworthy female lay follower sees him, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:30.2
Pali: tiṇṇaṁ dhammānaṁ aññatarena vadeyya pārājikena vā saṅghādisesena vā pācittiyena vā, 
English (brahmali, published): and accuses him of an offense entailing expulsion, an offense entailing suspension, or an offense entailing confession, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and accuses him of an offense entailing expulsion, an offense entailing suspension, or an offense entailing confession, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): and she accuses him of one of three offenses: expulsion, suspension, or confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:30.3
Pali: nisajjaṁ bhikkhu paṭijānamāno tiṇṇaṁ dhammānaṁ aññatarena kāretabbo pārājikena vā saṅghādisesena vā pācittiyena vā, 
English (brahmali, published): then, if he admits to the sitting, he is to be dealt with according to one of these three 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then, if he admits to the sitting, he is to be dealt with according to one of these three 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he admits to sitting there, he is to be dealt with according to one of these three, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:30.4
Pali: yena vā sā saddheyyavacasā upāsikā vadeyya, tena so bhikkhu kāretabbo, 
English (brahmali, published): or according to what that trustworthy female lay follower has said. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): or according to what that trustworthy female lay follower has said. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): or according to what that trustworthy female lay follower has said. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:30.5
Pali: ayaṁ dhammo aniyato. 
English (brahmali, published): This rule is undetermined. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This rule is undetermined. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): This rule is undetermined. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.0
Pali: Aniyata 2. Dutiyaaniyata 
English (brahmali, published): Undetermined 2: sitting alone with a woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Undetermined 2: Second Undetermined Offence 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 2. The Second Undetermined Rule 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.1
Pali: Na heva kho pana paṭicchannaṁ āsanaṁ hoti nālaṅkammaniyaṁ, alañca kho hoti mātugāmaṁ duṭṭhullāhi vācāhi obhāsituṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): Although a seat is not concealed, nor suitable for the deed, it may be suitable for speaking indecently to a woman. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Although a seat is not concealed, nor suitable for action, it may be suitable for speaking indecently to a woman. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): However, although a seat is not concealed, nor suitable for having sex, it may be suitable for talking dirty to a female in a lewd way. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.2
Pali: yo pana bhikkhu tathārūpe āsane mātugāmena saddhiṁ eko ekāya raho nisajjaṁ kappeyya, tamenaṁ saddheyyavacasā upāsikā disvā 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down on such a seat in private alone with a woman, and a trustworthy female lay follower sees him 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits alone with a woman in private on such a seat, and a trustworthy female lay follower sees him 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk sits alone with a woman in private on such a seat. A trustworthy female lay follower sees him, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.3
Pali: dvinnaṁ dhammānaṁ aññatarena vadeyya saṅghādisesena vā pācittiyena vā, 
English (brahmali, published): and accuses him of an offense entailing suspension or an offense entailing confession, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and accuses him of an offense entailing suspension or an offense entailing confession, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): and she accuses him of one of two offenses: suspension or confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.4
Pali: nisajjaṁ bhikkhu paṭijānamāno dvinnaṁ dhammānaṁ aññatarena kāretabbo saṅghādisesena vā pācittiyena vā, 
English (brahmali, published): then, if he admits to the sitting, he is to be dealt with according to one of these two 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then, if he admits to the sitting, he is to be dealt with according to one of these two 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he admits to sitting there, he is to be dealt with according to one of these two, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.5
Pali: yena vā sā saddheyyavacasā upāsikā vadeyya, tena so bhikkhu kāretabbo, 
English (brahmali, published): or according to what that trustworthy female lay follower has said. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): or according to what that trustworthy female lay follower has said. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): or according to what that trustworthy female lay follower has said. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:31.6
Pali: ayampi dhammo aniyato. 
English (brahmali, published): This rule too is undetermined. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This rule too is undetermined. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): This rule too is undetermined. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:32.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto dve aniyatā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the two undetermined rules have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “Venerables, the two undetermined rules have been recited. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The two undetermined offences have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:32.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Regarding this matter, I ask the venerables: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:32.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a second time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:32.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): For a third time I ask: are you pure in this? 

pli-tv-bu-pm:32.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The venerables are pure, that is why they are silent. So shall I remember it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:32.6
Pali: Aniyato niṭṭhito 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on undetermined offenses is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Chapter on Undetermined Offenses is Finished. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The undetermined offences are complete. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:33.0
Pali: Nissaggiyapācittiyā 
English (brahmali, published): The rules of relinquishment and confession 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Relinquishment With Confession 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment and Confession 

pli-tv-bu-pm:33.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto tiṁsa nissaggiyā pācittiyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these thirty rules on relinquishment and confession come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these thirty rules on relinquishment and confession come up for recitation. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): And now, venerables, these thirty offences entailing relinquishment and confession come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:34.0.1
Pali: Chapter 1. Kaṭhina 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on the robe season 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Kaṭhina Chapter 

pli-tv-bu-pm:34.0.2
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 1. Kathina 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 1: keeping extra robe-cloth beyond ten days 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 1: The Robe-Making Season 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 1. Robe-making Season (1st) 

pli-tv-bu-pm:34.1
Pali: Niṭṭhitacīvarasmiṁ bhikkhunā ubbhatasmiṁ kathine dasāhaparamaṁ atirekacīvaraṁ dhāretabbaṁ, taṁ atikkāmayato nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When his robe is finished and the robe season has ended, a monk should keep an extra robe for ten days at the most. If he keeps it longer than that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When his robe is finished and the robe season has ended, a monk should keep an extra robe for ten days at the most. If he keeps it longer than that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Extra robe-cloth may be kept by a monk for ten days at the most, so long as his robe is finished and the robe-making season has ended. If he keeps it beyond that, it entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:35.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 2. Udosita 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 2: staying apart from one’s robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 2: Staying Apart From Robes 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 2. Robe-making Season (2nd) 

pli-tv-bu-pm:35.1
Pali: Niṭṭhitacīvarasmiṁ bhikkhunā ubbhatasmiṁ kathine ekarattampi ce bhikkhu ticīvarena vippavaseyya, aññatra bhikkhusammutiyā nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When his robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if a monk stays apart from his three robes even for a single day, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When his robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if a monk stays apart from his three robes even for a single day, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): A monk should not stay apart from his three robes even for a single day, so long as his robe is finished and the robe-making season has ended. This entails relinquishment and confession, unless it has been agreed on by the monks. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:36.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 3. Akālacīvara 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 3: keeping extra robe-cloth beyond a month 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 3: Out-of-Season Robe Cloth 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 3. Out-of-season Robe-cloth 

pli-tv-bu-pm:36.1
Pali: Niṭṭhitacīvarasmiṁ bhikkhunā ubbhatasmiṁ kathine bhikkhuno paneva akālacīvaraṁ uppajjeyya, ākaṅkhamānena bhikkhunā paṭiggahetabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): When his robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if out-of-season robe-cloth is offered to a monk, he may receive it if he wishes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When his robe is finished and the robe season has ended, if out-of-season robe-cloth is given to a monk, he may receive it if he wishes. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Out-of-season robe-cloth may be received by a monk if he so wishes, so long as his robe is finished and the robe-making season has ended. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:36.2
Pali: paṭiggahetvā khippameva kāretabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he receives it, he should quickly make a robe. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he receives it, he should quickly make a robe. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): However, once he has received it, he should make a robe right away. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:36.3
Pali: no cassa pāripūri, māsaparamaṁ tena bhikkhunā taṁ cīvaraṁ nikkhipitabbaṁ ūnassa pāripūriyā satiyā paccāsāya. 
English (brahmali, published): If there is not enough cloth, but he is expecting more, he should keep it at most one month to make up the lack. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If there is not enough cloth, but he is expecting more, he should keep it at most one month to make up the lack. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If there is not enough cloth, but he is expecting more, he may keep it at most one month to make up the lack. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:36.4
Pali: Tato ce uttari nikkhipeyya satiyāpi paccāsāya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he keeps it longer than that, then even if he expects more cloth, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he keeps it longer than that, then even if he expects more cloth, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession.’” 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he keeps it beyond that, even if he expects more cloth, it entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:37.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 4. Purāṇacīvara 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 4: having a nun wash a used robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 4: Used Robes 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 4. Washing A Used Robe 

pli-tv-bu-pm:37.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātikāya bhikkhuniyā purāṇacīvaraṁ dhovāpeyya vā rajāpeyya vā ākoṭāpeyya vā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has an unrelated nun wash, dye, or beat a used robe, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has an unrelated nun wash, dye, or beat a used robe, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk gets an unrelated nun to wash, dye, or beat a used robe. This entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:38.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 5. Cīvarapaṭiggahaṇa 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 5: receiving a robe from a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 5: Receiving Robe Cloth 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 5. Receiving a Robe 

pli-tv-bu-pm:38.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātikāya bhikkhuniyā hatthato cīvaraṁ paṭiggaṇheyya aññatra pārivattakā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk receives a robe directly from an unrelated nun, except in exchange, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk receives a robe directly from an unrelated nun, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk receives robe-cloth from the hand of an unrelated nun. This entails relinquishment and confession, unless it is in exchange. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:39.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 6. Aññātakaviññatti 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 6: asking an unrelated person for a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 6: Asking an Unrelated Person for Robes 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 6. Asking an Unrelated Layperson 

pli-tv-bu-pm:39.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātakaṁ gahapatiṁ vā gahapatāniṁ vā cīvaraṁ viññāpeyya aññatra samayā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk asks an unrelated male or female householder for a robe, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk asks an unrelated male or female householder for a robe, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. [See essay on cīvara.] 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk asks an unrelated layman or laywoman for robe-cloth. This entails relinquishment and confession, except for certain occasions. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:39.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, acchinnacīvaro vā hoti bhikkhu, naṭṭhacīvaro vā, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: his robes are stolen or his robes are lost. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: his robes are stolen or his robes are lost. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The occasions are these: his robes are stolen or destroyed. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:40.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 7. Tatuttari 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 7: accepting too many robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 8: Accepting Too Many Robes 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 7. More Than That 

pli-tv-bu-pm:40.1
Pali: Tañce aññātako gahapati vā gahapatānī vā bahūhi cīvarehi abhihaṭṭhuṁ pavāreyya, santaruttaraparamaṁ tena bhikkhunā tato cīvaraṁ sāditabbaṁ. Tato ce uttari sādiyeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If an unrelated male or female householder invites that monk to take many robes, he should accept at most one sarong and one upper robe. If he accepts more than that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If an unrelated male or female householder invites that monk to take many robes, he should accept at most one sarong and one upper robe. If he accepts more than that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If an unrelated layman or laywoman should invite that monk to take much robe-cloth, he may accept at most cloth for one sarong and one upper robe. If he accepts more than that, it entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:41.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 8. Paṭhamaupakkhaṭa 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 8: requesting a fine robe from a fund 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 8: Requesting Fine Robes From a Robe Fund 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 8. Set Aside (1st) 

pli-tv-bu-pm:41.1
Pali: Bhikkhuṁ paneva uddissa aññātakassa gahapatissa vā gahapatāniyā vā cīvaracetāpannaṁ upakkhaṭaṁ hoti 
English (brahmali, published): If a male or female householder has set aside a robe fund for an unrelated monk, thinking, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a male or female householder has set aside a robe fund for an unrelated monk, thinking, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But then an unrelated layman or laywoman sets aside a robe fund specially for a monk, thinking, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:41.2
Pali: “iminā cīvaracetāpannena cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā itthannāmaṁ bhikkhuṁ cīvarena acchādessāmī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘With this robe fund I will buy robe-cloth and give it to monk so-and-so;’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘With this robe fund I will buy robe-cloth and give it to monk so-and-so;’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘With this robe fund I shall buy a robe to clothe the monk so-and-so.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:41.3
Pali: tatra ce so bhikkhu pubbe appavārito upasaṅkamitvā cīvare vikappaṁ āpajjeyya 
English (brahmali, published): and if that monk, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth he wants, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and if that monk, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth he wants, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Then suppose that monk approaches them without first being invited and specifies the kind of robe he wants, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:41.4
Pali: “sādhu vata maṁ āyasmā iminā cīvaracetāpannena evarūpaṁ vā evarūpaṁ vā cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā acchādehī”ti 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Please use this robe fund to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘It would be good if you would use this robe fund to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Please sir, use this robe fund to buy such-and-such a robe and then give it to me.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:41.5
Pali: kalyāṇakamyataṁ upādāya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): and he does so because he wants something fine, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and he does so because he wants something fine, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he does so because he wants something nice, it entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:42.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 9. Dutiyaupakkhaṭa 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 9: requesting a fine robe from a combined fund 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 9: Requesting Fine Robes From a Combined Robe Fund 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 9. Set Aside (2nd) 

pli-tv-bu-pm:42.1
Pali: Bhikkhuṁ paneva uddissa ubhinnaṁ aññātakānaṁ gahapatīnaṁ vā gahapatānīnaṁ vā paccekacīvaracetāpannāni upakkhaṭāni honti 
English (brahmali, published): If two male or female householders have set aside separate robe funds for an unrelated monk, thinking, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If two male or female householders have set aside separate robe funds for an unrelated monk, thinking, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But then a pair of unrelated laymen or laywomen set aside separate robe funds specially for a monk, thinking, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:42.2
Pali: “imehi mayaṁ paccekacīvaracetāpannehi paccekacīvarāni cetāpetvā itthannāmaṁ bhikkhuṁ cīvarehi acchādessāmā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘With these separate robe funds we’ll buy separate robe-cloths and give them to monk so-and-so;’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘With these separate robe funds we’ll buy separate robe-cloths and give them to monk so-and-so;’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘With these independent robe funds we shall buy independent robes to clothe the monk so-and-so.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:42.3
Pali: tatra ce so bhikkhu pubbe appavārito upasaṅkamitvā cīvare vikappaṁ āpajjeyya 
English (brahmali, published): and if that monk, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth he wants, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and if that monk, without first being invited, goes to them and specifies the kind of robe-cloth he wants, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Then suppose that monk approaches them without first being invited and specifies the kind of robe he wants, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:42.4
Pali: “sādhu vata maṁ āyasmanto imehi paccekacīvaracetāpannehi evarūpaṁ vā evarūpaṁ vā cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā acchādetha ubhova santā ekenā”ti 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Please put these separate robe funds together to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘It would be good if you would put these separate robe funds together to buy such-and-such robe-cloth and then give it to me,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Please sirs, use these separate robe funds to buy such-and-such a robe and then give it to me, with both of you acting together.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:42.5
Pali: kalyāṇakamyataṁ upādāya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): and he does so because he wants something fine, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and he does so because he wants something fine, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he does so because he wants something nice, it entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 10. Rāja 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 10: excessive prompting to get a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 10: Excessive Prompting for Robe Funds 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 10. Kings 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.1
Pali: Bhikkhuṁ paneva uddissa rājā vā rājabhoggo vā brāhmaṇo vā gahapatiko vā dūtena cīvaracetāpannaṁ pahiṇeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If a king, a king’s employee, a brahmin, or a householder sends a robe fund for a monk by messenger, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a king, a king’s employee, a brahmin, or a householder sends a robe fund for a monk by messenger, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But then a king, one who serves a king, a brahmin, or a householder might send a robe fund by messenger specially for a monk, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.2
Pali: “iminā cīvaracetāpannena cīvaraṁ cetāpetvā itthannāmaṁ bhikkhuṁ cīvarena acchādehī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Buy robe-cloth with this robe fund and give it to monk so-and-so,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Buy robe-cloth with this robe fund and give it to monk so-and-so,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Buy a robe with this robe fund and give it to monk so-and-so.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.3
Pali: So ce dūto taṁ bhikkhuṁ upasaṅkamitvā evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): and the messenger goes to that monk and says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and the messenger goes to that monk and says, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Then the messenger might go to that monk and say, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.4
Pali: “idaṁ kho, bhante, āyasmantaṁ uddissa cīvaracetāpannaṁ ābhataṁ, paṭiggaṇhātu āyasmā cīvaracetāpanna”nti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, I have brought a robe fund for you. Please receive it,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, I have brought a robe fund for you. Please receive it,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, I have brought a robe fund for you; please accept it.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.5
Pali: Tena bhikkhunā so dūto evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): then that monk should reply, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then that monk should reply, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): That monk should reply, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.6
Pali: “na kho mayaṁ, āvuso, cīvaracetāpannaṁ paṭiggaṇhāma, cīvarañca kho mayaṁ paṭiggaṇhāma kālena kappiya”nti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘We don’t receive robe funds, but we do receive allowable robe-cloth at the right time.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘We don’t receive robe funds, but we do receive allowable robe-cloth at the right time.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘We don’t receive robe funds, but we do receive allowable robes at the right time.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.7
Pali: So ce dūto taṁ bhikkhuṁ evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If that messenger says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that messenger says, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): That messenger then might say, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.8
Pali: “atthi panāyasmato koci veyyāvaccakaro”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Is there anyone who provides services for you?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Is there anyone who provides services for you?’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Is there anyone who provides services for you?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.9
Pali: Cīvaratthikena, bhikkhave, bhikkhunā veyyāvaccakaro niddisitabbo ārāmiko vā upāsako vā 
English (brahmali, published): the monk, if he needs robe-cloth, should point out a monastery worker or a lay follower and say, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the monk, if he needs robe-cloth, should point out a monastery worker or a lay follower and say, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): A monk in need of a robe may point out a monastery worker or a lay follower and say, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.10
Pali: “eso kho, āvuso, bhikkhūnaṁ veyyāvaccakaro”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘They provide services for the monks.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘That person provides services for the nuns.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘They provide services for the monks.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.11
Pali: So ce dūto taṁ veyyāvaccakaraṁ saññāpetvā taṁ bhikkhuṁ upasaṅkamitvā evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If the messenger instructs that service provider and then returns to the monk and says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If the messenger instructs that service-provider and then returns to the monk and says, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): After reaching an agreement with that service-provider and returning to the monk, the messenger might say, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.12
Pali: “yaṁ kho, bhante, āyasmā veyyāvaccakaraṁ niddisi, saññatto so mayā, upasaṅkamatāyasmā kālena, cīvarena taṁ acchādessatī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Venerable, I have instructed the service provider you pointed out. Please go to them at the right time and they’ll give you robe-cloth,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, I have instructed the service-provider you pointed out. Please go to them at the right time and they’ll give you robe-cloth,’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Venerable, I have reached an agreement with the service-provider you pointed out. Please approach them at the right time and they will clothe you in a robe.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.13
Pali: Cīvaratthikena, bhikkhave, bhikkhunā veyyāvaccakaro upasaṅkamitvā dvattikkhattuṁ codetabbo sāretabbo 
English (brahmali, published): then, if that monk needs robe-cloth, he should go to that service provider and prompt them and remind them two or three times, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then, if that monk needs robe-cloth, he should go to that service-provider and prompt them and remind them two or three times, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): A monk in need of a robe, after approaching that service-provider, may prompt and remind them two or three times, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.14
Pali: “attho me, āvuso, cīvarenā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I need robe-cloth.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): “I need robe-cloth.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): “I am in need of a robe.” 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.15
Pali: dvattikkhattuṁ codayamāno sārayamāno taṁ cīvaraṁ abhinipphādeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If the robe is forthcoming, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.16
Pali: no ce abhinipphādeyya, catukkhattuṁ pañcakkhattuṁ chakkhattuparamaṁ tuṇhībhūtena uddissa ṭhātabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he does not get it, he should stand in silence for it at most six times. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he does not get it, he should stand in silence for it at most six times. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If it is not forthcoming, he may stand in silence at most six times. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.17
Pali: catukkhattuṁ pañcakkhattuṁ chakkhattuparamaṁ tuṇhībhūto uddissa tiṭṭhamāno taṁ cīvaraṁ abhinipphādeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If he then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he then gets robe-cloth, all is well. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If the robe is forthcoming, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.18
Pali: tato ce uttari vāyamamāno taṁ cīvaraṁ abhinipphādeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he makes any further effort and then gets robe-cloth, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he makes any further effort and then gets robe-cloth, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If he makes any further effort and then the robe is forthcoming, this entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.19
Pali: No ce abhinipphādeyya, yatassa cīvaracetāpannaṁ ābhataṁ, tattha sāmaṁ vā gantabbaṁ, dūto vā pāhetabbo 
English (brahmali, published): If he does not get robe-cloth, he should go to the owners of that robe fund, or send a message, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he does not get robe-cloth, he should go to the owners of that robe fund, or send a message, saying, 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If the robe is not forthcoming, he should go to the owner of that robe fund or send a message: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.20
Pali: “yaṁ kho tumhe āyasmanto bhikkhuṁ uddissa cīvaracetāpannaṁ pahiṇittha, na taṁ tassa bhikkhuno kiñci atthaṁ anubhoti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘That monk hasn’t received any benefit from the robe fund you sent for him. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘That monk hasn’t received any benefit from the robe fund you sent for him. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): ‘Sirs, the robe fund you sent specially for a monk has not been used for that monk’s needs. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.21
Pali: yuñjantāyasmanto sakaṁ, mā vo sakaṁ vinassā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): Please recover what’s yours, or it might perish.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Please recover what’s yours, or it might perish.’ 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): Please take action to protect your property, lest it be lost.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.22
Pali: ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the proper procedure. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): This is the proper procedure in this case. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:43.23
Pali: Kathinavaggo paṭhamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The first subchapter on the robe season is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The First Sub-Chapter on Robe Season is Finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:44.0.1
Pali: Chapter 2. Kosiya 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on silk 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): The Silk Chapter 

pli-tv-bu-pm:44.0.2
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 11. Kosiya 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 11: making a blanket with silk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 11: Silk Blanket 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 11. Silk 

pli-tv-bu-pm:44.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu kosiyamissakaṁ santhataṁ kārāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has a blanket made that contains silk, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a blanket made that contains silk, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk has a rug made mixed with silk. This entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:45.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 12. Suddhakāḷaka 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 12: making a blanket entirely of black wool 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 12: Pure Black Blanket 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 12. Pure Black 

pli-tv-bu-pm:45.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu suddhakāḷakānaṁ eḷakalomānaṁ santhataṁ kārāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has a blanket made entirely of black wool, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a blanket made entirely of black wool, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk has a rug made of pure black wool. This entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:46.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 13. Dvebhāga 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 13: making a new blanket with too much black wool 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 13: A New Blanket Should Have Mixed Colors 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 13. Two Parts 

pli-tv-bu-pm:46.1
Pali: Navaṁ pana bhikkhunā santhataṁ kārayamānena dve bhāgā suddhakāḷakānaṁ eḷakalomānaṁ ādātabbā, tatiyaṁ odātānaṁ, catutthaṁ gocariyānaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is having a new blanket made, he should use two parts of entirely black wool, a third part of white, and a fourth part of brown. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is having a new blanket made, he should use two parts of entirely black wool, a third part of white, and a fourth part of brown. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But when a new rug is being made by a monk, it should include two parts of pure black wool, a third of white, and a fourth of brown. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:46.2
Pali: Anādā ce bhikkhu dve bhāge suddhakāḷakānaṁ eḷakalomānaṁ, tatiyaṁ odātānaṁ, catutthaṁ gocariyānaṁ, navaṁ santhataṁ kārāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he has a new blanket made without using two parts of entirely black wool, a third part of white, and a fourth part of brown, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he has a new blanket made without using two parts of entirely black wool, a third part of white, and a fourth part of brown, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession.’” 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a new rug made without including two parts of pure black wool, a third of white, and a fourth of brown, this entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:47.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 14. Chabbassa 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 14: keeping a new blanket less than six years 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 14: A New Blanket Should be Kept for Six Years 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 14. Six Years 

pli-tv-bu-pm:47.1
Pali: Navaṁ pana bhikkhunā santhataṁ kārāpetvā chabbassāni dhāretabbaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has had a new blanket made, he should keep it for six years. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has had a new blanket made, he should keep it for six years. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But when a monk has had a new rug made, they should wear it for six years. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:47.2
Pali: orena ce channaṁ vassānaṁ taṁ santhataṁ vissajjetvā vā avissajjetvā vā aññaṁ navaṁ santhataṁ kārāpeyya aññatra bhikkhusammutiyā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Whether that blanket has been given away or not, if he has another new blanket made in less than six years, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Whether that blanket has been given away or not, if he has another new blanket made in less than six years, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If they have another new rug made within six years, regardless of whether they have relinquished the old rug or not, this entails relinquishment and confession, unless it is agreed on by the monks. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:48.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 15. Nisīdanasanthata 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 15: making an inappropriate sitting blanket 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 15: A Sitting-Blanket 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 15. A Sitting Rug 

pli-tv-bu-pm:48.1
Pali: Nisīdanasanthataṁ pana bhikkhunā kārayamānena purāṇasanthatassa sāmantā sugatavidatthi ādātabbā dubbaṇṇakaraṇāya. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is having a sitting blanket made, he must incorporate a piece of one standard handspan from the border of an old blanket in order to make it ugly. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is having a sitting-blanket made, he must incorporate a piece of one standard handspan from the border of an old blanket in order to make it ugly. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But when a sitting rug is being made by a monk, it should include a border made of an old rug to the width of a sugata-span in order to disfigure it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:48.2
Pali: Anādā ce bhikkhu purāṇasantha tassa sāmantā sugatavidatthiṁ, navaṁ nisīdanasanthataṁ kārāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he has a new sitting blanket made without incorporating a piece of one standard handspan from the border of an old blanket, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he has a new sitting-blanket made without incorporating a piece of one standard handspan from the border of an old blanket, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a new sitting rug made without including a border made of an old rug to the width of a sugata-span, this entails relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:49.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 16. Eḷakaloma 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 16: carrying wool too far 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 16: Carrying Wool 

pli-tv-bu-pm:49.1
Pali: Bhikkhuno paneva addhānamaggappaṭipannassa eḷakalomāni uppajjeyyuṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): If wool is given to a monk who is traveling, he may receive it if he wishes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If wool is given to a monk who is traveling, he may receive it if he wishes. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:49.2
Pali: ākaṅkhamānena bhikkhunā paṭiggahetabbāni, paṭiggahetvā tiyojanaparamaṁ sahatthā haritabbāni asante hārake. 
English (brahmali, published): If he receives it and there is no-one else to carry it, he may carry it himself for at most 40 kilometers. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he receives it and there is no one else to carry it, he may carry it himself for at most 40 kilometers. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:49.3
Pali: Tato ce uttari hareyya, asantepi hārake, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he carries it further than that, even if there is no-one else to carry it, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he carries it further than that, even if there is no one else to carry it, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:50.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 17. Eḷakalomadhovāpana 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 17: getting a nun to wash wool 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 17: Getting a Nun to Wash Wool 

pli-tv-bu-pm:50.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātikāya bhikkhuniyā eḷakalomāni dhovāpeyya vā rajāpeyya vā vijaṭāpeyya vā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has an unrelated nun wash, dye, or comb wool, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has an unrelated nun wash, dye, or comb wool, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:51.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 18. Rūpiya 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 18: becoming the owner of money 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 18: Money 

pli-tv-bu-pm:51.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jātarūparajataṁ uggaṇheyya vā uggaṇhāpeyya vā upanikkhittaṁ vā sādiyeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk takes, has someone else take, or consents to gold, silver, or money being deposited for him, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk takes, has someone else take, or consents to gold and silver being deposited for him, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:52.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 19. Rūpiyasaṁvohāra 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 19: trading with money 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 19: Trading With Money 

pli-tv-bu-pm:52.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu nānappakārakaṁ rūpiyasaṁvohāraṁ samāpajjeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk engages in various kinds of trades involving money, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk trades with money in various ways, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:53.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 20. Kayavikkaya 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 20: bartering 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 20: Bartering 

pli-tv-bu-pm:53.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu nānappakārakaṁ kayavikkayaṁ samāpajjeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk engages in various kinds of barter, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk barters in various ways, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:53.2
Pali: Kosiyavaggo dutiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The second subchapter on silk is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The second sub-chapter on silk is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:54.0.1
Pali: Chapter 3. Patta 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on almsbowls 

pli-tv-bu-pm:54.0.2
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 21. Patta 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 21: keeping an extra almsbowl beyond ten days 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 21: An Extra Almsbowl 

pli-tv-bu-pm:54.1
Pali: Dasāhaparamaṁ atirekapatto dhāretabbo, taṁ atikkāmayato nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): A monk should keep an extra almsbowl for ten days at the most. If he keeps it longer than that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A monk should keep an extra almsbowl for ten days at the most. If he keeps it longer than that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:55.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 22. Ūnapañcabandhana 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 22: exchanging an almsbowl with fewer than five mends 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 22: An Almsbowl With Fewer Than Five Mends 

pli-tv-bu-pm:55.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu ūnapañcabandhanena pattena aññaṁ navaṁ pattaṁ cetāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk exchanges an almsbowl with fewer than five mends for a new almsbowl, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk exchanges an almsbowl with fewer than five mends for a new almsbowl, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:55.2
Pali: Tena bhikkhunā so patto bhikkhuparisāya nissajjitabbo, 
English (brahmali, published): That monk should relinquish that almsbowl to a gathering of monks. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): That monk should relinquish that almsbowl to a gathering of monks. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:55.3
Pali: yo ca tassā bhikkhuparisāya pattapariyanto, so tassa bhikkhuno padātabbo “ayaṁ te bhikkhu patto yāva bhedanāya dhāretabbo”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): He should then be given the last almsbowl belonging to that gathering: ‘Monk, this bowl is yours. Keep it until it breaks.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): He should then be given the last almsbowl belonging to that gathering: ‘Monk, this bowl is yours. Keep it until it breaks.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:55.4
Pali: ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:56.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 23. Bhesajja 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 23: storing the five tonics too long 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 23: The Five Tonics 

pli-tv-bu-pm:56.1
Pali: Yāni kho pana tāni gilānānaṁ bhikkhūnaṁ paṭisāyanīyāni bhesajjāni, seyyathidaṁ—sappi navanītaṁ telaṁ madhu phāṇitaṁ, tāni paṭiggahetvā sattāhaparamaṁ sannidhikārakaṁ paribhuñjitabbāni, 
English (brahmali, published): After being received, the tonics allowable for sick monks—that is, ghee, butter, oil, honey, and syrup—should be used from storage for at most seven days. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): After being received, the tonics allowable for sick monks—that is, ghee, butter, oil, honey, and syrup—should be used from storage for at most seven days. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:56.2
Pali: taṁ atikkāmayato nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If one uses them longer than that, one commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If one uses them longer than that, one commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:57.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 24. Vassikasāṭika 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 24: making a rainy-season robe at the wrong time 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 24: Rainy-Season Robes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:57.1
Pali: “Māso seso gimhāna”nti bhikkhunā vassikasāṭikacīvaraṁ pariyesitabbaṁ, “addhamāso seso gimhāna”nti katvā nivāsetabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When there is a month left of summer, a monk may go looking for cloth for his rainy-season robe. When there is a half-month left, he may sew it and then wear it. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When there is a month left of the hot season, a monk may go looking for cloth for his rainy-season robe. When there is a half-month left, he may sew it and then wear it. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:57.2
Pali: Orena ce “māso seso gimhāna”nti vassikasāṭikacīvaraṁ pariyeseyya, orena“ddhamāso seso gimhāna”nti katvā nivāseyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he goes looking for cloth for his rainy-season robe when there is more than a month left of summer, or if he sews it and then wears it when there is more than a half-month left, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he goes looking for cloth for his rainy-season robe when there is more than a month left of the hot season, or if he sews it and then wears it when there is more than a half-month left, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:58.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 25. Cīvaraacchindana 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 25: taking back robe-cloth in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 25: Taking Back Robe-Cloth 

pli-tv-bu-pm:58.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa sāmaṁ cīvaraṁ datvā kupito anattamano acchindeyya vā acchindāpeyya vā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk himself gives a robe to a monk, but then, in anger, takes it back or has it taken back, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk himself gives a robe to a monk, but then, in anger, takes it back or has it taken back, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:59.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 26. Suttaviññatti 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 26: asking for thread 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 26: Asking for Thread 

pli-tv-bu-pm:59.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sāmaṁ suttaṁ viññāpetvā tantavāyehi cīvaraṁ vāyāpeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk himself asks for thread, and then has weavers weave him robe-cloth, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk himself asks for thread, and then has weavers weave him robe-cloth, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:60.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 27. Mahāpesakāra 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 27: bribing weavers 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 27: Bribing Weavers 

pli-tv-bu-pm:60.1
Pali: Bhikkhuṁ paneva uddissa aññātako gahapati vā gahapatānī vā tantavāyehi cīvaraṁ vāyāpeyya, tatra ce so bhikkhu pubbe appavārito tantavāye upasaṅkamitvā cīvare vikappaṁ āpajjeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If a male or female householder is having robe-cloth woven by weavers for an unrelated monk and, without first being invited, that monk goes to those weavers and specifies the kind of robe-cloth he wants, saying, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a male or female householder is having robe-cloth woven by weavers for an unrelated monk and, without first being invited, that monk goes to those weavers and specifies the kind of robe-cloth he wants, saying, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:60.2
Pali: “idaṁ kho, āvuso, cīvaraṁ maṁ uddissa viyyati, āyatañca karotha, vitthatañca, appitañca, suvītañca, suppavāyitañca, suvilekhitañca, suvitacchitañca karotha, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘This robe-cloth that you are weaving for me, make it long and wide; make it closely woven, well-woven, well-stretched, well-scraped, and well-combed, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘This robe-cloth that you are weaving for me, make it long and wide; make it closely woven, well-woven, well-stretched, well-scraped, and well-combed, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:60.3
Pali: appeva nāma mayampi āyasmantānaṁ kiñcimattaṁ anupadajjeyyāmā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): and perhaps I will even give you a small gift,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): and perhaps I will even give you a small gift,’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:60.4
Pali: Evañca so bhikkhu vatvā kiñcimattaṁ anupadajjeyya antamaso piṇḍapātamattampi, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): then, in saying that and afterwards giving them a small gift, even a bit of almsfood, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then, in saying that and afterwards giving them a small gift, even a bit of almsfood, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:61.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 28. Accekacīvara 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 28: storing haste-cloth too long 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 28: Haste-Cloth 

pli-tv-bu-pm:61.1
Pali: Dasāhānāgataṁ kattikatemāsikapuṇṇamaṁ bhikkhuno paneva accekacīvaraṁ uppajjeyya, accekaṁ maññamānena bhikkhunā paṭiggahetabbaṁ, paṭiggahetvā yāva cīvarakālasamayaṁ nikkhipitabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When there are ten days left to the Kattika full moon that ends the first rainy-season residence and a haste-cloth is given to a monk, he may receive it if he regards it as urgent. He may then store it until the end of the robe season. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When there are ten days left to the Kattika full moon that ends the first rainy-season residence and haste-cloth is given to a monk, he may receive it if he regards it as urgent. He may then store it until the end of the robe season. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:61.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari nikkhipeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he stores it beyond that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he stores it beyond that, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:62.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 29. Sāsaṅka 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 29: storing a robe for more than six days in an inhabited area 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 29: Keeping Robes while Staying in Risky Regions 

pli-tv-bu-pm:62.1
Pali: Upavassaṁ kho pana kattikapuṇṇamaṁ yāni kho pana tāni āraññakāni senāsanāni sāsaṅkasammatāni sappaṭibhayāni, tathārūpesu bhikkhu senāsanesu viharanto ākaṅkhamāno tiṇṇaṁ cīvarānaṁ aññataraṁ cīvaraṁ antaraghare nikkhipeyya, siyā ca tassa bhikkhuno kocideva paccayo tena cīvarena vippavāsāya, 
English (brahmali, published): There are wilderness dwellings that are considered risky and dangerous. After observing the Kattika full moon that ends the rainy season, a monk who is staying in such a dwelling may, if he so desires, store one of his three robes in an inhabited area so long as he has a reason for staying apart from that robe. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): There are wilderness dwellings that are considered risky and dangerous. After observing the Kattika full moon that ends the rainy season, a monk who is staying in such a dwelling may, if he so desires, store one of his three robes in an inhabited area so long as he has a reason for staying apart from that robe. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:62.2
Pali: chārattaparamaṁ tena bhikkhunā tena cīvarena vippavasitabbaṁ. Tato ce uttari vippavaseyya aññatra bhikkhusammutiyā, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): He should stay apart from that robe for six days at the most. If he stays apart from it longer than that, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): He should stay apart from that robe for six days at the most. If he stays apart from it longer than that, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:63.0
Pali: Nissaggiya Pācittiya 30. Pariṇata 
English (brahmali, published): Relinquishment and confession 30: diverting an offering intended for the Sangha 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Relinquishment With Confession 30: Offerings Intended for the Saṅgha 

pli-tv-bu-pm:63.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ saṅghikaṁ lābhaṁ pariṇataṁ attano pariṇāmeyya, nissaggiyaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk diverts to himself material support that he knows was intended for the Sangha, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk diverts to himself material support that he knows was intended for the Sangha, he commits an offense entailing relinquishment and confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:63.2
Pali: Pattavaggo tatiyo. 
English (brahmali, published): The third subchapter on almsbowls is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Chapter on Offenses Entailing Relinquishment is Finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:64.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto tiṁsa nissaggiyā pācittiyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:64.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:64.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:64.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:64.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:64.6
Pali: Nissaggiyapācittiyā niṭṭhitā 
English (brahmali, published): The offenses entailing relinquishment and confession are finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The offenses entailing relinquishment and confession are finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:65.0
Pali: Suddhapācittiyā 
English (brahmali, published): The rules on confession 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Confession 

pli-tv-bu-pm:65.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto dvenavuti pācittiyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these ninety-two rules on confession come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these ninety-two rules on confession come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:66.0.1
Pali: Chapter 1. Musāvāda 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on lying 

pli-tv-bu-pm:66.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 1. Musāvāda 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 1: lying 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 1: Lying 

pli-tv-bu-pm:66.1
Pali: Sampajānamusāvāde pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk lies in full awareness, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk lies in full awareness, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:67.0
Pali: Pācittiya 2. Omasavāda 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 2: abusive speech 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 2: Abusive Speech 

pli-tv-bu-pm:67.1
Pali: Omasavāde pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk speaks abusively, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk speaks abusively, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:68.0
Pali: Pācittiya 3. Pesuñña 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 3: malicious talebearing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 3: Malicious Talebearing 

pli-tv-bu-pm:68.1
Pali: Bhikkhupesuññe pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk engages in malicious talebearing between monks, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk engages in malicious talebearing between monks, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:69.0
Pali: Pācittiya 4. Padasodhamma 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 4: instructing a householder to memorize the Teaching 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 4: Memorizing the Teaching 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): 4. Teaching Dhamma Line by Line 

pli-tv-bu-pm:69.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu anupasampannaṁ padaso dhammaṁ vāceyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk instructs a person who is not fully ordained to memorize the Teaching, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk instructs a person who is not fully ordained to memorize the Teaching, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (sujato, origin/unpublished): But suppose a monk gets an unordained person to repeat the teaching line by line, this entails confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:70.0
Pali: Pācittiya 5. Paṭhamasahaseyya 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 5: lying down with one not fully ordained 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 5: Lying Down With One Not Fully Ordained 

pli-tv-bu-pm:70.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu anupasampannena uttaridirattatirattaṁ sahaseyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk lies down more than two or three nights in the same sleeping place as a person who is not fully ordained, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk lies down more than two or three nights in the same sleeping place as a person who is not fully ordained, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:71.0
Pali: Pācittiya 6. Dutiyasahaseyya 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 6: lying down with a woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 6: Lying Down With a Woman 

pli-tv-bu-pm:71.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mātugāmena sahaseyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk lies down in the same sleeping place as a woman, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk lies down in the same sleeping place as a woman, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:72.0
Pali: Pācittiya 7. Dhammadesanā 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 7: teaching a woman alone 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 7: Teaching Someone of the Opposite Gender Alone 

pli-tv-bu-pm:72.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mātugāmassa uttarichappañcavācāhi dhammaṁ deseyya aññatra viññunā purisaviggahena, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk gives a teaching of more than five or six sentences to a woman, except in the presence of a man who understands, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk gives a teaching of more than five or six sentences to a woman, except in the presence of a man who understands, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:73.0
Pali: Pācittiya 8. Bhūtārocana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 8: truthfully announcing a superhuman quality 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 8: Truthfully Announcing Superhuman Attainments 

pli-tv-bu-pm:73.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu anupasampannassa uttarimanussadhammaṁ āroceyya, bhūtasmiṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk truthfully tells a person who is not fully ordained of a superhuman quality, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk truthfully tells a person who is not fully ordained of a superhuman quality, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:74.0
Pali: Pācittiya 9. Duṭṭhullārocana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 9: announcing a monk’s grave offense 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 9: Announcing a Grave Offense 

pli-tv-bu-pm:74.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa duṭṭhullaṁ āpattiṁ anupasampannassa āroceyya aññatra bhikkhusammutiyā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk tells a person who is not fully ordained about a monk’s grave offense, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk tells a person who is not fully ordained about a monk’s grave offense, except if the monks have agreed, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:75.0
Pali: Pācittiya 10. Pathavīkhaṇana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 10: digging the earth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 10: Digging the Earth 

pli-tv-bu-pm:75.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu pathaviṁ khaṇeyya vā khaṇāpeyya vā pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk digs the earth or has it dug, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk digs the earth or has it dug, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:75.2
Pali: Musāvādavaggo paṭhamo 
English (brahmali, published): The first subchapter on lying is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The first sub-chapter on lying is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:76.0.1
Pali: Chapter 2. Bhūtagāma 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on plants 

pli-tv-bu-pm:76.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 11. Bhūtagāma 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 11: destroying plants 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 11:Damaging Plants 

pli-tv-bu-pm:76.1
Pali: Bhūtagāmapātabyatāya pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk destroys a plant, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk destroys plants, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:77.0
Pali: Pācittiya 12. Aññavādaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 12: speaking evasively 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 12: Evasive Speech 

pli-tv-bu-pm:77.1
Pali: Aññavādake, vihesake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk speaks evasively or harasses, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk speaks evasively or harasses, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:78.0
Pali: Pācittiya 13. Ujjhāpanaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 13: complaining 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 13: Complaining 

pli-tv-bu-pm:78.1
Pali: Ujjhāpanake, khiyyanake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk complains or criticizes, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk complains or criticizes, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:79.0
Pali: Pācittiya 14. Paṭhamasenāsana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 14: leaving furniture outside 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 14: Leaving Furniture Outside 

pli-tv-bu-pm:79.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu saṅghikaṁ mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā bhisiṁ vā kocchaṁ vā ajjhokāse santharitvā vā santharāpetvā vā taṁ pakkamanto neva uddhareyya, na uddharāpeyya, anāpucchaṁ vā gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk takes a bed, a bench, a mattress, or a stool belonging to the Sangha and puts it out in the open or has it put out in the open, and he then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk takes a bed, a bench, a mattress, or a stool belonging to the Sangha and puts it outside or has it put outside, and he then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:80.0
Pali: Pācittiya 15. Dutiyasenāsana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 15: not putting away bedding 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 15: Leaving Bedding Outside 

pli-tv-bu-pm:80.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu saṅghike vihāre seyyaṁ santharitvā vā santharāpetvā vā taṁ pakkamanto neva uddhareyya, na uddharāpeyya, anāpucchaṁ vā gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk puts out bedding in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has it put out, and he then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk puts out bedding in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has it put out, and he then departs without putting it away, having it put away, or informing anyone, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:81.0
Pali: Pācittiya 16. Anupakhajja 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 16: encroaching on a monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 16: Encroaching on a Monastic 

pli-tv-bu-pm:81.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu saṅghike vihāre jānaṁ pubbupagataṁ bhikkhuṁ anupakhajja seyyaṁ kappeyya “yassa sambādho bhavissati, so pakkamissatī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If, in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, a monk arranges his sleeping place in a way that encroaches on a monk that he knows arrived there before him, with the intention that anyone who feels crowded will leave, and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If, in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, a monk arranges his sleeping place in a way that encroaches on a monk that he knows arrived there before him, with the intention that anyone who feels crowded will leave, and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:82.0
Pali: Pācittiya 17. Nikkaḍḍhana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 17: evicting a monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 17: Throwing Out a Monastic 

pli-tv-bu-pm:82.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ kupito anattamano saṅghikā vihārā nikkaḍḍheyya vā nikkaḍḍhāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, in anger, throws a monk out of a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has him thrown out, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, in anger, throws a monk out of a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, or has him thrown out, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:83.0
Pali: Pācittiya 18. Vehāsakuṭi 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 18: sitting down on an upper story 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 18: The Upper Story of a Hut 

pli-tv-bu-pm:83.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu saṅghike vihāre uparivehāsakuṭiyā āhaccapādakaṁ mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā abhinisīdeyya vā abhinipajjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down or lies down on a bed or a bench with detachable legs on an upper story in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits down or lies down on a bed or a bench with detachable legs on an upper story in a dwelling belonging to the Sangha, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:84.0
Pali: Pācittiya 19. Mahallakavihāra 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 19: applying excessive materials to a large dwelling 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 19: Applying Materials to a Large Dwelling 

pli-tv-bu-pm:84.1
Pali: Mahallakaṁ pana bhikkhunā vihāraṁ kārayamānena yāva dvārakosā aggaḷaṭṭhapanāya ālokasandhiparikammāya dvatticchadanassa pariyāyaṁ appaharite ṭhitena adhiṭṭhātabbaṁ, tato ce uttari appaharitepi ṭhito adhiṭṭhaheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a monk is building a large dwelling, then standing where there are no cultivated plants, he may apply two or three layers of roofing material, taking it as far as the doorcase and using it for fixing the door and for treating the window openings. If he applies more than that, even if he stands where there are no cultivated plants, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘When a monk is building a large dwelling, then standing where there are no cultivated plants, he may apply two or three courses of roofing material, taking it as far as the doorcase and using it for fixing the door and for treating the window openings. If he applies more than that, even if he stands where there are no cultivated plants, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:85.0
Pali: Pācittiya 20. Sappāṇaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 20: pouring water with living beings in it 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 20: Using Water With Living Creatures 

pli-tv-bu-pm:85.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ sappāṇakaṁ udakaṁ tiṇaṁ vā mattikaṁ vā siñceyya vā siñcāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk pours water that he knows contains living beings onto grass or clay, or has it poured, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk pours water that he knows contains living beings onto grass or clay, or has it poured, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:85.2
Pali: Bhūtagāmavaggo dutiyo 
English (brahmali, published): The second subchapter on plants is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The second sub-chapter on vegetation is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:86.0.1
Pali: Chapter 3. Ovāda 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on the instruction 

pli-tv-bu-pm:86.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 21. Ovāda 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 21: instructing nuns without approval 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 21: Instruction 

pli-tv-bu-pm:86.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu asammato bhikkhuniyo ovadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who has not been appointed instructs the nuns, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who has not been appointed instructs the nuns, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:87.0
Pali: Pācittiya 22. Atthaṅgata 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 22: instructing nuns after sunset 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 22: Instructing Nuns After Sunset 

pli-tv-bu-pm:87.1
Pali: Sammatopi ce bhikkhu atthaṅgate sūriye bhikkhuniyo ovadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Even if he has been appointed, if a monk instructs the nuns after sunset, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Even if he has been appointed, if a monk instructs the nuns after sunset, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:88.0
Pali: Pācittiya 23. Bhikkhunupassaya 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 23: instructing nuns in a nunnery 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 23: Instructing Nuns in a Nunnery 

pli-tv-bu-pm:88.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhunupassayaṁ upasaṅkamitvā bhikkhuniyo ovadeyya aññatra samayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk goes to a nunnery and instructs the nuns, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk goes to the nuns’ dwelling place and then instructs them, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:88.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, gilānā hoti bhikkhunī, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the appropriate occasion: a nun is sick. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the appropriate occasion: a nun is sick. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:89.0
Pali: Pācittiya 24. Āmisa 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 24: accusing monks of teaching nuns for profit 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 24: Teaching Nuns for Profit 

pli-tv-bu-pm:89.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu evaṁ vadeyya “āmisahetu therā bhikkhū bhikkhuniyo ovadantī”ti, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk says that the senior monks are instructing the nuns for the sake of worldly gain, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk says that the senior monks are instructing the nuns for the sake of worldly gain, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:90.0
Pali: Pācittiya 25. Cīvaradāna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 25: giving robe-cloth to a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 25: Giving Robes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:90.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātikāya bhikkhuniyā cīvaraṁ dadeyya aññatra pārivattakā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk gives robe-cloth to an unrelated nun, except in exchange, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk gives robe-cloth to an unrelated nun, except in exchange, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:91.0
Pali: Pācittiya 26. Cīvarasibbana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 26: sewing a robe for a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 26: Sewing Robes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:91.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātikāya bhikkhuniyā cīvaraṁ sibbeyya vā sibbāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sews a robe for an unrelated nun, or has one sewn, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sews a robe for an unrelated nun, or has one sewn, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:92.0
Pali: Pācittiya 27. Saṁvidhāna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 27: traveling with a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 27: Travelling by Arrangement 

pli-tv-bu-pm:92.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuniyā saddhiṁ saṁvidhāya ekaddhānamaggaṁ paṭipajjeyya antamaso gāmantarampi aññatra samayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk travels by arrangement with a nun, even just to the next inhabited area, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk travels by appointment with a nun, even just to the next village, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:92.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, satthagamanīyo hoti maggo, sāsaṅkasammato, sappaṭibhayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the appropriate occasion: the road is considered risky and dangerous and should be traveled with a group. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the appropriate occasion: the road is considered risky and dangerous and should be traveled with a group. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:93.0
Pali: Pācittiya 28. Nāvābhiruhana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 28: traveling on a boat with a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 28: Travelling on a Boat With a Nun 

pli-tv-bu-pm:93.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuniyā saddhiṁ saṁvidhāya ekaṁ nāvaṁ abhiruheyya uddhaṅgāminiṁ vā adhogāminiṁ vā aññatra tiriyaṁ taraṇāya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk boards a boat by arrangement with a nun, either to go upstream or downstream, except for the purpose of crossing, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk boards a boat by appointment with a nun, either to go upstream or downstream, except for the purpose of crossing, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:94.0
Pali: Pācittiya 29. Paripācita 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 29: eating food prepared on a nun’s instruction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 29: Eating Food Prepared on a Nun’s Instruction 

pli-tv-bu-pm:94.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ bhikkhuniparipācitaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjeyya aññatra pubbe gihisamārambhā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eats almsfood knowing that a nun had it prepared, except if the householder had intended to prepare it anyway, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eats almsfood knowing that a nun had it prepared, except if the householder had intended to prepare it anyway, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:95.0
Pali: Pācittiya 30. Rahonisajja 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 30: sitting alone with a nun 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 30: Sitting in Private 

pli-tv-bu-pm:95.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuniyā saddhiṁ eko ekāya raho nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down in private alone with a nun, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits in private alone with a nun, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:95.2
Pali: Ovādavaggo tatiyo 
English (brahmali, published): The third subchapter on the instruction is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The third sub-chapter on teaching is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:96.0.1
Pali: Chapter 4. Bhojanavaggo 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on eating 

pli-tv-bu-pm:96.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 31. Āvasathapiṇḍa 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 31: eating excessively at a public guesthouse 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 31: Eating at a Public Guest-House 

pli-tv-bu-pm:96.1
Pali: Agilānena bhikkhunā eko āvasathapiṇḍo bhuñjitabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who is not sick eats more than one almsmeal at a public guesthouse, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who is not sick eats more than one alms-meal at a public guesthouse, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:96.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari bhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:97.0
Pali: Pācittiya 32. Gaṇabhojana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 32: eating in a group 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 32: Eating in a Group 

pli-tv-bu-pm:97.1
Pali: Gaṇabhojane aññatra samayā pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eats in a group, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eats in a group, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:97.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, gilānasamayo, cīvaradānasamayo, cīvarakārasamayo, addhānagamanasamayo, nāvābhiruhanasamayo, mahāsamayo, samaṇabhattasamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: he is sick; it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes; he is traveling; he is on a boat; it is a big occasion; it is a meal given by a monastic. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: he is sick; it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes; he is traveling; he is on a boat; it is a big occasion; it is a meal given by a monastic. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:98.0
Pali: Pācittiya 33. Paramparabhojana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 33: eating meals in succession 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 33: Eating Successive Meals 

pli-tv-bu-pm:98.1
Pali: Paramparabhojane aññatra samayā pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eats a meal before another, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eats a meal before another, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:98.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, gilānasamayo, cīvaradānasamayo, cīvarakārasamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: he is sick; it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: he is sick; it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:99.0
Pali: Pācittiya 34. Kāṇamātu 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 34: accepting more than three bowlfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 34: Accepting Two or Three Bowls Full 

pli-tv-bu-pm:99.1
Pali: Bhikkhuṁ paneva kulaṁ upagataṁ pūvehi vā manthehi vā abhihaṭṭhuṁ pavāreyya, ākaṅkhamānena bhikkhunā dvattipattapūrā paṭiggahetabbā. Tato ce uttari paṭiggaṇheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk goes to a family and is invited to take cookies or crackers, he may accept two or three bowlfuls if he wishes. If he accepts more than that, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk goes to a family and is invited to take pastries or baked goods, he may accept two or three bowlfuls if he wishes. If he accepts more than that, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:99.2
Pali: Dvattipattapūre paṭiggahetvā tato nīharitvā bhikkhūhi saddhiṁ saṁvibhajitabbaṁ, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): If he accepts two or three bowlfuls, he should take it away and share it with the monks. This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he accepts two or three bowlfuls, he should take it away and share it with the monks. This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:100.0
Pali: Pācittiya 35. Paṭhamapavāraṇā 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 35: eating more after refusing an invitation 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 35: Eating More After Refusing an Invitation 

pli-tv-bu-pm:100.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhuttāvī pavārito anatirittaṁ khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has finished his meal and refused an invitation to eat more, and then eats fresh or cooked food that is not left over, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has finished his meal and refused an invitation to eat more, and then eats fresh or cooked food that is not left over, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:101.0
Pali: Pācittiya 36. Dutiyapavāraṇā 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 36: encouraging a monastic to eat after refusing an invitation 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 36: Encouraging Another Monastic to Eat More After Refusing an Invitation 

pli-tv-bu-pm:101.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ bhuttāviṁ pavāritaṁ anatirittena khādanīyena vā bhojanīyena vā abhihaṭṭhuṁ pavāreyya “handa bhikkhu khāda vā bhuñja vā”ti jānaṁ āsādanāpekkho, bhuttasmiṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk invites a monk, whom he knows has finished his meal and refused an invitation to eat more, to eat fresh or cooked food that is not left over, saying, ‘Here, monk, eat,’ aiming to criticize him, then when the other has eaten, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk invites a monk, who he knows has finished his meal and refused an invitation to eat more, to eat fresh or cooked food that is not left over, saying, ‘Here, monk, eat,’ aiming to criticize him, then when the other has eaten, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:102.0
Pali: Pācittiya 37. Vikālabhojana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 37: eating at the wrong time 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession  37: Eating at the Wrong Time 

pli-tv-bu-pm:102.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu vikāle khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eats fresh or cooked food at the wrong time, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eats fresh or cooked food at the wrong time, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:103.0
Pali: Pācittiya 38. Sannidhikāraka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 38: eating stored food 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 38: Storing Food 

pli-tv-bu-pm:103.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sannidhikārakaṁ khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eats fresh or cooked food that he has stored, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eats fresh or cooked food that he has stored, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:104.0
Pali: Pācittiya 39. Paṇītabhojana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 39: asking for fine foods 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 39 Asking for Fine Foods 

pli-tv-bu-pm:104.1
Pali: Yāni kho pana tāni paṇītabhojanāni, seyyathidaṁ—sappi, navanītaṁ, telaṁ, madhu, phāṇitaṁ, maccho, maṁsaṁ, khīraṁ, dadhi. Yo pana bhikkhu evarūpāni paṇītabhojanāni agilāno attano atthāya viññāpetvā bhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who is not sick asks for any of these kinds of fine foods for himself—that is, ghee, butter, oil, honey, syrup, fish, meat, milk, and curd—and then eats it, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who is not sick asks for any of these kinds of fine foods for himself—that is, ghee, butter, oil, honey, syrup, fish, meat, milk, and curd—and then eats it, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:105.0
Pali: Pācittiya 40. Dantapona 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 40: eating ungiven food 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 40: Eating Unoffered Food 

pli-tv-bu-pm:105.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu adinnaṁ mukhadvāraṁ āhāraṁ āhareyya aññatra udakadantaponā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eats food that has not been given, except for water and tooth cleaners, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eats food that has not been given, except for water and tooth cleaners, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:105.2
Pali: Bhojanavaggo catuttho 
English (brahmali, published): The fourth subchapter on eating is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fourth sub-chapter on eating is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:106.0.1
Pali: Chapter 5. Acelaka 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on naked ascetics 

pli-tv-bu-pm:106.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 41. Acelaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 41: giving food to non-Buddhist monastics 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 41: Giving Food to Ascetics 

pli-tv-bu-pm:106.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu acelakassa vā paribbājakassa vā paribbājikāya vā sahatthā khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā dadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk personally gives fresh or cooked food to a naked ascetic, to a male wanderer, or to a female wanderer, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk gives fresh or cooked food to a naked ascetic, to a male wanderer, or to a female wanderer with his own hands, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:107.0
Pali: Pācittiya 42. Uyyojana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 42: dismissing a monk during almsround 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 42: Sending a Monastic Back from Almsround 

pli-tv-bu-pm:107.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ “ehāvuso, gāmaṁ vā nigamaṁ vā piṇḍāya pavisissāmā”ti tassa dāpetvā vā adāpetvā vā uyyojeyya “gacchāvuso, na me tayā saddhiṁ kathā vā nisajjā vā phāsu hoti, ekakassa me kathā vā nisajjā vā phāsu hotī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk says to a monk, ‘Come, let’s go to the village or town for alms,’ and then, whether he has had food given to him or not, sends him away, saying, ‘Go away! I’m not comfortable talking or sitting with you, but only if I talk and sit by myself,’ and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk says to a monk, ‘Come, let’s go to the village or town for alms,’ and then, whether he has had food given to him or not, sends him away, saying, ‘Go away, I’m not comfortable talking or sitting with you, but only if I talk and sit by myself,’ and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:108.0
Pali: Pācittiya 43. Sabhojana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 43: intruding on a lustful couple 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 43: Intruding on a Couple Enjoying Themselves 

pli-tv-bu-pm:108.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sabhojane kule anupakhajja nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down intruding on a lustful couple, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits down intruding on a lustful couple, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:109.0
Pali: Pācittiya 44. Rahopaṭicchanna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 44: sitting with a woman in a concealed place 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 44: Sitting in a Concealed Place 

pli-tv-bu-pm:109.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mātugāmena saddhiṁ raho paṭicchanne āsane nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down in private on a concealed seat with a woman, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits down in private on a concealed seat with a woman, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:110.0
Pali: Pācittiya 45. Rahonisajja 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 45: sitting alone with a woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 45: Sitting in Private 

pli-tv-bu-pm:110.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mātugāmena saddhiṁ eko ekāya raho nisajjaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk sits down in private alone with a woman, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk sits down in private alone with a woman, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:111.0
Pali: Pācittiya 46. Cāritta 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 46: visiting families before a meal 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 46: Visiting Families Before a Meal 

pli-tv-bu-pm:111.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu nimantito sabhatto samāno santaṁ bhikkhuṁ anāpucchā purebhattaṁ vā pacchābhattaṁ vā kulesu cārittaṁ āpajjeyya aññatra samayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who has been invited to a meal visits families beforehand or afterwards without informing an available monk, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who has been invited to a meal visits families beforehand or afterwards without informing an available monk, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:111.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo, cīvaradānasamayo, cīvarakārasamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the robe-giving season; it is a time of making robes. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:112.0
Pali: Pācittiya 47. Mahānāma 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 47: accepting an invitation of more than four months 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 47: An Invitation for Four Months 

pli-tv-bu-pm:112.1
Pali: Agilānena bhikkhunā catumāsappaccayapavāraṇā sāditabbā aññatra punapavāraṇāya, aññatra niccapavāraṇāya. Tato ce uttari sādiyeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): A monk who is not sick may accept an invitation to ask for requisites for four months. If he accepts one beyond that limit, except if it is a further invitation or a permanent invitation, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A monk who is not sick may accept an invitation to ask for requisites for four months. If he accepts one beyond that limit, except if it is a further invitation or a permanent invitation, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:113.0
Pali: Pācittiya 48. Uyyuttasenā 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 48: going to see a mobilized army 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 48: Seeing a Mobilizing Army 

pli-tv-bu-pm:113.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu uyyuttaṁ senaṁ dassanāya gaccheyya aññatra tathārūpappaccayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk goes to see an army, except if there is a suitable reason, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk goes to see an army, except if there is a suitable reason, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:114.0
Pali: Pācittiya 49. Senāvāsa 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 49: staying more than three days with an army 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 49: Staying with an Army 

pli-tv-bu-pm:114.1
Pali: Siyā ca tassa bhikkhuno kocideva paccayo senaṁ gamanāya, dirattatirattaṁ tena bhikkhunā senāya vasitabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If that monk has a reason for going to the army, he may stay with the army for two or three nights. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk has a reason for going to the army, he may stay with the army for two or three nights. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:114.2
Pali: Tato ce uttari vaseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he stays longer than that, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he stays longer than that, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:115.0
Pali: Pācittiya 50. Uyyodhika 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 50: seeing an army in action 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 50. Viewing a Military Action 

pli-tv-bu-pm:115.1
Pali: Dirattatirattaṁ ce bhikkhu senāya vasamāno uyyodhikaṁ vā balaggaṁ vā senābyūhaṁ vā anīkadassanaṁ vā gaccheyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who is staying with an army for two or three nights goes to a battle, a troop review, a massing of the army, or a troop inspection, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who is staying with an army for two or three nights goes to a battle, a troop review, a massing of the army, or a troop inspection, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:115.2
Pali: Acelakavaggo pañcamo 
English (brahmali, published): The fifth subchapter on naked ascetics is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fifth sub-chapter on naked ascetics is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:116.0.1
Pali: Chapter 6. Surāpāna 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on drinking alcohol 

pli-tv-bu-pm:116.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 51. Surāpāna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 51: drinking alcohol 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 51: Drinking Alcohol 

pli-tv-bu-pm:116.1
Pali: Surāmerayapāne pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk drinks this or that kind of alcoholic drink, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk drinks this or that kind of alcoholic drink, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:117.0
Pali: Pācittiya 52. Aṅgulipatodaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 52: tickling 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 52: Tickling 

pli-tv-bu-pm:117.1
Pali: Aṅgulipatodake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk tickles someone, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk tickles someone, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:118.0
Pali: Pācittiya 53. Hasadhamma 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 53: playing in water 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 53: Playing 

pli-tv-bu-pm:118.1
Pali: Udake hasadhamme pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk plays in water, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk plays in water, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:119.0
Pali: Pācittiya 54. Anādariya 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 54: disrespect 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 54: Disrespect 

pli-tv-bu-pm:119.1
Pali: Anādariye pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is disrespectful, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is disrespectful, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:120.0
Pali: Pācittiya 55. Bhiṁsāpana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 55: scaring a monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 55: Scaring 

pli-tv-bu-pm:120.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ bhiṁsāpeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk scares a monk, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk scares a monk, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:121.0
Pali: Pācittiya 56. Joti 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 56: lighting a fire 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 56: Lighting a Fire 

pli-tv-bu-pm:121.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu agilāno visibbanāpekkho jotiṁ samādaheyya vā samādahāpeyya vā aññatra tathārūpappaccayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk who is not sick lights a fire to warm himself, or has one lit, except if there is a suitable reason, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk who is not sick lights a fire to warm himself, or has one lit, except if there is a suitable reason, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:122.0
Pali: Pācittiya 57. Nahāna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 57: bathing too often 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 57: Bathing 

pli-tv-bu-pm:122.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu orenaddhamāsaṁ nahāyeyya aññatra samayā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk bathes at intervals of less than a half-month, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk bathes at intervals of less than a half-month, except on an appropriate occasion, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:122.2
Pali: Tatthāyaṁ samayo “diyaḍḍho māso seso gimhāna”nti “vassānassa paṭhamo māso” iccete aḍḍhateyyamāsā uṇhasamayo, pariḷāhasamayo, gilānasamayo, kammasamayo, addhānagamanasamayo, vātavuṭṭhisamayo, ayaṁ tattha samayo. 
English (brahmali, published): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the two-and-a-half-month period of summer and the fever season, comprising the last one-and-a-half months of summer and the first month of the rainy season; he is sick; he is working; he is traveling; there is wind and rain. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): These are the appropriate occasions: it is the two-and-a-half-month period of the hot season and the fever season, comprising the last one-and-a-half months of summer and the first month of the rainy season; he is sick; he is working; he is traveling; there is wind and rain. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:123.0
Pali: Pācittiya 58. Dubbaṇṇakaraṇa 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 58: not making stains on a new robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 58: Making Stains 

pli-tv-bu-pm:123.1
Pali: Navaṁ pana bhikkhunā cīvaralābhena tiṇṇaṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇānaṁ aññataraṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇaṁ ādātabbaṁ nīlaṁ vā kaddamaṁ vā kāḷasāmaṁ vā. Anādā ce bhikkhu tiṇṇaṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇānaṁ aññataraṁ dubbaṇṇakaraṇaṁ navaṁ cīvaraṁ paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When a monk gets a new robe, he should apply one of three kinds of stains: blue-green, mud color, or dark brown. If a monk uses a new robe without applying any of the three kinds of stains, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When a monk gets a new robe, he should apply one of three kinds of stains: blue-green, mud-color, or dark brown. If a monk uses a new robe without applying any of the three kinds of stains, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:124.0
Pali: Pācittiya 59. Vikappana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 59: using assigned property that has not been relinquished 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 59: Transferring to Another 

pli-tv-bu-pm:124.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa vā bhikkhuniyā vā sikkhamānāya vā sāmaṇerassa vā sāmaṇeriyā vā sāmaṁ cīvaraṁ vikappetvā appaccuddhāraṇaṁ paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk himself assigns the ownership of a robe to a monk, a nun, a trainee nun, a novice monk, or a novice nun, and he then uses it without the other first relinquishing it, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk himself assigns the ownership of a robe to a monk, to a nun, to a trainee nun, to a novice monk, or to a novice nun, and he then uses it without the other first relinquishing it, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:125.0
Pali: Pācittiya 60. Apanidhāna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 60: hiding a robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 60: Hiding Robes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:125.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa pattaṁ vā cīvaraṁ vā nisīdanaṁ vā sūcigharaṁ vā kāyabandhanaṁ vā apanidheyya vā apanidhāpeyya vā antamaso hasāpekkhopi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk hides a monk’s bowl, robe, sitting mat, needle case, or belt, or he has it hidden, even just for a laugh, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk hides a monk’s bowl, robe, sitting mat, needle case, or belt, or he has it hidden, even just for a laugh, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:125.2
Pali: Surāpānavaggo chaṭṭho 
English (brahmali, published): The sixth subchapter on drinking alcohol is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sixth sub-chapter on drinking alcohol if finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:126.0.1
Pali: Chapter 7. Sappāṇa 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on containing living beings 

pli-tv-bu-pm:126.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 61. Sañcicca 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 61: intentionally killing a living being 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 61: Intentionally Killing Living Creatures 

pli-tv-bu-pm:126.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sañcicca pāṇaṁ jīvitā voropeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk intentionally kills a living being, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk intentionally kills a living being, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:127.0
Pali: Pācittiya 62. Sappāṇaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 62: using water with living beings in it 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 62: Using Water with Living Creatures 

pli-tv-bu-pm:127.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ sappāṇakaṁ udakaṁ paribhuñjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk uses water that he knows contains living beings, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk uses water that he knows contains living beings, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:128.0
Pali: Pācittiya 63. Ukkoṭana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 63: reopening a settled legal issue 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 63: Reopening a Legal Issue 

pli-tv-bu-pm:128.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ yathādhammaṁ nihatādhikaraṇaṁ punakammāya ukkoṭeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk reopens a legal issue that he knows has been legitimately settled, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk reopens a legal issue that he knows has been legitimately settled, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:129.0
Pali: Pācittiya 64. Duṭṭhulla 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 64: concealing a grave offense 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 64: Concealing a Grave Offense 

pli-tv-bu-pm:129.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa jānaṁ duṭṭhullaṁ āpattiṁ paṭicchādeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk knowingly conceals a monk’s grave offense, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk knowingly conceals a monk’s grave offense, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:130.0
Pali: Pācittiya 65. Ūnavīsativassa 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 65: ordaining a person under twenty 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 65: Ordaining Under Twenty 

pli-tv-bu-pm:130.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ ūnavīsativassaṁ puggalaṁ upasampādeyya, so ca puggalo anupasampanno, te ca bhikkhū gārayhā, idaṁ tasmiṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk gives the full ordination to a person he knows is less than twenty years old, he commits an offense entailing confession. Moreover, that person has not received the full ordination and those monks are blameworthy. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk gives the full ordination to a person he knows is less than twenty years old, he commits an offense entailing confession. Moreover, that person has not received the full ordination and those monks are blameworthy. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:131.0
Pali: Pācittiya 66. Theyyasattha 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 66: traveling with thieves 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 66: Travelling With Thieves 

pli-tv-bu-pm:131.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ theyyasatthena saddhiṁ saṁvidhāya ekaddhānamaggaṁ paṭipajjeyya antamaso gāmantarampi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk knowingly travels by arrangement with a group of thieves, even just to the next inhabited area, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk knowingly travels by appointment with a group of thieves, even just to the next village, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:132.0
Pali: Pācittiya 67. Saṁvidhāna 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 67: traveling with a woman 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 67 Travelling by Arrangement 

pli-tv-bu-pm:132.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mātugāmena saddhiṁ saṁvidhāya ekaddhānamaggaṁ paṭipajjeyya antamaso gāmantarampi, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk travels by arrangement with a woman, even just to the next inhabited area, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk travels by appointment with a woman, even just to the next village, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.0
Pali: Pācittiya 68. Ariṭṭha 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 68: not giving up a bad view 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 68: Obstructions 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk says, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.2
Pali: “tathāhaṁ bhagavatā dhammaṁ desitaṁ ājānāmi, yathā yeme antarāyikā dhammā vuttā bhagavatā, te paṭisevato nālaṁ antarāyāyā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstacles are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstructive are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.3
Pali: so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): then the monks should correct him like this: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.4
Pali: “māyasmā evaṁ avaca, mā bhagavantaṁ abbhācikkhi, na hi sādhu bhagavato abbhakkhānaṁ, na hi bhagavā evaṁ vadeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, venerable, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, Venerable, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.5
Pali: anekapariyāyenāvuso antarāyikā dhammā antarāyikā vuttā bhagavatā, alañca pana te paṭisevato antarāyāyā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstacles to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstructive things to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.6
Pali: Evañca so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi vuccamāno tatheva paggaṇheyya, so bhikkhu bhikkhūhi yāvatatiyaṁ samanubhāsitabbo tassa paṭinissaggāya. 
English (brahmali, published): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him give up that view. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that monk continues as before, the monks should press him up to three times to make him stop. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.7
Pali: Yāvatatiyañce samanubhāsiyamāno taṁ paṭinissajjeyya, iccetaṁ kusalaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he then gives it up, all is well. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he then stops, all is well. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:133.8
Pali: No ce paṭinissajjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If he does not, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:134.0
Pali: Pācittiya 69. Ukkhittasambhoga 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 69: living with an ejected monk 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 69: Living With an Ejected Monastic 

pli-tv-bu-pm:134.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ tathāvādinā bhikkhunā akaṭānudhammena taṁ diṭṭhiṁ appaṭinissaṭṭhena saddhiṁ sambhuñjeyya vā, saṁvaseyya vā, saha vā seyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk lives, does formal meetings, or shares a sleeping place with a monk who he knows is saying such things, who has not made amends according to the rule, and who has not given up that view, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk lives, does formal meetings, or shares a sleeping place with a monk who he knows is saying such things, who has not made amends according to the rule, and who has not given up that view, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.0
Pali: Pācittiya 70. Kaṇṭaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 70: supporting a novice monk with a bad view 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 70: Obstructions and a Novice 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.1
Pali: Samaṇuddesopi ce evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): Also if a novice monastic says, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Also if a novice monastic says, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.2
Pali: “tathāhaṁ bhagavatā dhammaṁ desitaṁ ājānāmi, yathā yeme antarāyikā dhammā vuttā bhagavatā, te paṭisevato nālaṁ antarāyāyā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstacles are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘As I understand the Buddha’s Teaching, the things he calls obstructive are unable to obstruct one who indulges in them,’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.3
Pali: so samaṇuddeso bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): then the monks should correct him like this: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  then the monks should correct him like this: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.4
Pali: “māvuso, samaṇuddesa evaṁ avaca, mā bhagavantaṁ abbhācikkhi, na hi sādhu bhagavato abbhakkhānaṁ, na hi bhagavā evaṁ vadeyya, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘No, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘No, don’t misrepresent the Buddha, for it’s not good to misrepresent the Buddha. The Buddha would never say such a thing. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.5
Pali: anekapariyāyenāvuso, samaṇuddesa antarāyikā dhammā antarāyikā vuttā bhagavatā, alañca pana te paṭisevato antarāyāyā”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstacles to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In many discourses the Buddha has declared the obstructive things to be obstructive and how they obstruct one who indulges in them.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.6
Pali: evañca so samaṇuddeso bhikkhūhi vuccamāno tatheva paggaṇheyya, so samaṇuddeso bhikkhūhi evamassa vacanīyo 
English (brahmali, published): If that novice monastic continues as before, he should be told: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If that novice monastic continues as before, he should be told: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.7
Pali: “ajjatagge te, āvuso, samaṇuddesa na ceva so bhagavā satthā apadisitabbo, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘From today on you may not refer to the Buddha as your teacher. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished):  ‘From today on you may not refer to the Buddha as your teacher. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.8
Pali: yampi caññe samaṇuddesā labhanti bhikkhūhi saddhiṁ dirattatirattaṁ sahaseyyaṁ, sāpi te natthi, 
English (brahmali, published): And, unlike other novices, you can no longer share a sleeping place with the monks for two or three nights. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And you can no longer share a sleeping place with the monks for two or three nights, as can other novice monastics. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.9
Pali: cara pire, vinassā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): Go! Away with you!’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Go! Away with you!’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.10
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ tathānāsitaṁ samaṇuddesaṁ upalāpeyya vā, upaṭṭhāpeyya vā, sambhuñjeyya vā, saha vā seyyaṁ kappeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk befriends that novice monastic, or he is attended on by him, lives with him, or shares a sleeping place with him, even though he knows that he has been expelled in this way, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk supports that novice monastic, or he is attended on by him, lives with him, or shares a sleeping place with him, even though he knows that he has been expelled in this way, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:135.11
Pali: Sappāṇakavaggo sattamo 
English (brahmali, published): The seventh subchapter on containing living beings is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The seventh sub-chapter on containing living beings is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:136.0.1
Pali: Chapter 8. Sahadhammika 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on legitimate correction 

pli-tv-bu-pm:136.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 71. Sahadhammika 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 71: not accepting legitimate correction 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 71: Legitimate Correction 

pli-tv-bu-pm:136.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhūhi sahadhammikaṁ vuccamāno evaṁ vadeyya “na tāvāhaṁ, āvuso, etasmiṁ sikkhāpade sikkhissāmi, yāva na aññaṁ bhikkhuṁ byattaṁ vinayadharaṁ paripucchāmī”ti, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, when legitimately corrected by the monks, says, ‘I won’t practice this training rule until I’ve questioned a monk who is an expert on the Monastic Law,’ he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, when legitimately corrected by the monks, says, I won’t practice this training rule until I’ve questioned a monk who is an expert on the Monastic Law,’ he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:136.2
Pali: Sikkhamānena, bhikkhave, bhikkhunā aññātabbaṁ paripucchitabbaṁ paripañhitabbaṁ, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): A monk who is training should understand, should question, should enquire. This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A monk who is training should understand, should question, should enquire. This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:137.0
Pali: Pācittiya 72. Vilekhana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 72: disparaging the training rules 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 72: Annoyance 

pli-tv-bu-pm:137.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu pātimokkhe uddissamāne evaṁ vadeyya “kiṁ panimehi khuddānukhuddakehi sikkhāpadehi uddiṭṭhehi, yāvadeva kukkuccāya vihesāya vilekhāya saṁvattantī”ti, sikkhāpadavivaṇṇake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When the Monastic Code is being recited, if a monk says, ‘What’s the point of reciting these minor training rules, when they just lead to anxiety, oppression, and annoyance?’ then in disparaging the training rules, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When the Monastic Code is being recited, if a monk says, ‘What’s the point of reciting these minor and insignificant training rules, when they just lead to anxiety, oppression, and annoyance?’ then in disparaging the training rules, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:138.0
Pali: Pācittiya 73. Mohana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 73: deception 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 73: Deception 

pli-tv-bu-pm:138.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu anvaddhamāsaṁ pātimokkhe uddissamāne evaṁ vadeyya 
English (brahmali, published): During the half-monthly recitation of the Monastic Code, a monk might say, 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): During the half-monthly recitation of the Monastic Code, a monk might say, 

pli-tv-bu-pm:138.2
Pali: “idāneva kho ahaṁ jānāmi, ayampi kira dhammo suttāgato suttapariyāpanno anvaddhamāsaṁ uddesaṁ āgacchatī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘Just now did I find out that this rule too has come down in the Monastic Code, is included in the Monastic Code, and comes up for recitation every half-month.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘Just now did I find out that this rule too has come down in the Monastic Code, is included in the Monastic Code, and comes up for recitation every half-month.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:138.3
Pali: Tañce bhikkhuṁ aññe bhikkhū jāneyyuṁ nisinnapubbaṁ iminā bhikkhunā dvattikkhattuṁ pātimokkhe uddissamāne, ko pana vādo bhiyyo, na ca tassa bhikkhuno aññāṇakena mutti atthi, yañca tattha āpattiṁ āpanno, tañca yathādhammo kāretabbo, uttari cassa moho āropetabbo 
English (brahmali, published): If other monks know that that monk has previously sat through at least two or three recitations of the Monastic Code, then that monk is not let off because of ignorance, and he is to be dealt with according to the rule. Further, he should be charged with deception: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If other monks know that that monk has previously sat through at least two or three recitations of the Monastic Code, then that monk is not let off because of ignorance, and he is to be dealt with according to the rule. Further, he should be charged with deception: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:138.4
Pali: “tassa te, āvuso, alābhā, tassa te dulladdhaṁ, yaṁ tvaṁ pātimokkhe uddissamānena sādhukaṁ aṭṭhiṁ katvā manasi karosī”ti, 
English (brahmali, published): ‘It’s a loss for you that you don’t pay proper attention during the recitation of the Monastic Code.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): It’s a loss for you that you don’t pay proper attention during the recitation of the Monastic Code.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:138.5
Pali: idaṁ tasmiṁ mohanake pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): And for the act of deception, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): And for the act of deception, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:139.0
Pali: Pācittiya 74. Pahāra 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 74: hitting in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 74: Hitting 

pli-tv-bu-pm:139.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa kupito anattamano pahāraṁ dadeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk hits a monk in anger, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk hits a monk in anger, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:140.0
Pali: Pācittiya 75. Talasattika 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 75: raising a hand in anger 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 75: Raising a Hand 

pli-tv-bu-pm:140.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa kupito anattamano talasattikaṁ uggireyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk raises a hand in anger against a monk, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk raises a hand in anger against a monk, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:141.0
Pali: Pācittiya 76. Amūlaka 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 76: making a groundless accusation 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 76: Groundless Accusation 

pli-tv-bu-pm:141.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhuṁ amūlakena saṅghādisesena anuddhaṁseyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk groundlessly charges a monk with an offense entailing suspension, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk groundlessly charges a monk with an offense entailing suspension, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:142.0
Pali: Pācittiya 77. Sañcicca 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 77: intentionally making a monk anxious 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 77: Intentionally Making a Monastic Anxious 

pli-tv-bu-pm:142.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhussa sañcicca kukkuccaṁ upadaheyya “itissa muhuttampi aphāsu bhavissatī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk intentionally makes a monk anxious, thinking, ‘In this way he will be ill at ease at least for a moment,’ and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk intentionally makes a monk anxious, thinking, In this way he will be ill at ease at least for a moment,’ and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:143.0
Pali: Pācittiya 78. Upassuti 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 78: eavesdropping 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 78: Eavesdropping 

pli-tv-bu-pm:143.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu bhikkhūnaṁ bhaṇḍanajātānaṁ kalahajātānaṁ vivādāpannānaṁ upassutiṁ tiṭṭheyya “yaṁ ime bhaṇissanti, taṁ sossāmī”ti etadeva paccayaṁ karitvā anaññaṁ, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk eavesdrops on monks who are arguing and disputing, thinking, ‘I’ll hear what they say,’ and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk eavesdrops on monks who are arguing and disputing, thinking, ‘I’ll hear what they say,’ and he does so only for this reason and no other, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:144.0
Pali: Pācittiya 79. Kammappaṭibāhana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 79: criticizing a legitimate legal procedure 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 79: Obstructing a Legal Procedure 

pli-tv-bu-pm:144.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu dhammikānaṁ kammānaṁ chandaṁ datvā pacchā khīyanadhammaṁ āpajjeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk gives his consent to legitimate legal procedures, and then criticizes them afterwards, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk gives his consent to legitimate legal procedures, and then criticizes them afterwards, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:145.0
Pali: Pācittiya 80. Chandaṁadatvāgamana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 80: leaving without giving consent 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 80: Leaving Without Giving Consent 

pli-tv-bu-pm:145.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu saṅghe vinicchayakathāya vattamānāya chandaṁ adatvā uṭṭhāyāsanā pakkameyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): When the Sangha is in the middle of a discussion, if a monk gets up from his seat and leaves without first giving his consent, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When the Sangha is in the middle of a discussion, if a monk gets up from his seat and leaves without first giving his consent, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:146.0
Pali: Pācittiya 81. Dubbala 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 81: criticizing a robe distribution 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 81: Criticizing Robe Distribution 

pli-tv-bu-pm:146.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu samaggena saṅghena cīvaraṁ datvā pacchā khīyanadhammaṁ āpajjeyya “yathāsanthutaṁ bhikkhū saṅghikaṁ lābhaṁ pariṇāmentī”ti, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk gives out a robe as part of a unanimous Sangha and then criticizes it afterwards, saying, ‘The monks are diverting the Sangha’s material support according to friendship,’ he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk gives out a robe as part of a unanimous Sangha and then criticizes it afterwards, saying, ‘The monks are diverting the Sangha’s material gains according to friendship,’ he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:147.0
Pali: Pācittiya 82. Pariṇāmana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 82: diverting gains intended for the Sangha 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 82: Diverting Gains 

pli-tv-bu-pm:147.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu jānaṁ saṅghikaṁ lābhaṁ pariṇataṁ puggalassa pariṇāmeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk diverts to an individual material support that he knows was intended for the Sangha, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk diverts to an individual material support that he knows was intended for the Sangha, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:147.2
Pali: Sahadhammikavaggo aṭṭhamo 
English (brahmali, published): The eighth subchapter on legitimate correction is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The eighth sub-chapter on legitimate correction is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:148.0.1
Pali: Chapter 9. Ratana 
English (brahmali, published): The subchapter on precious things 

pli-tv-bu-pm:148.0.2
Pali: Pācittiya 83. Antepura 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 83: entering a royal compound unannounced 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 83: Royal Compounds 

pli-tv-bu-pm:148.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu rañño khattiyassa muddhābhisittassa anikkhantarājake aniggataratanake pubbe appaṭisaṁvidito indakhīlaṁ atikkāmeyya, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, without first being announced, crosses the threshold to the bedroom of a consecrated aristocrat king, when both the king and the queen are present, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, without first being announced, crosses the threshold to the bedroom of a consecrated aristocrat king, when both the king and the queen are present, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:149.0
Pali: Pācittiya 84. Ratana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 84: picking up precious things 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 84: Precious Things 

pli-tv-bu-pm:149.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu ratanaṁ vā ratanasammataṁ vā aññatra ajjhārāmā vā ajjhāvasathā vā uggaṇheyya vā uggaṇhāpeyya vā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or he has it picked up, except within a monastery or inside a lodging, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or he has it picked up, except within a monastery or inside a lodging, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:149.2
Pali: Ratanaṁ vā pana bhikkhunā ratanasammataṁ vā ajjhārāme vā ajjhāvasathe vā uggahetvā vā uggahāpetvā vā nikkhipitabbaṁ “yassa bhavissati, so harissatī”ti, ayaṁ tattha sāmīci. 
English (brahmali, published): If he picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or he has it picked up, within a monastery or inside a lodging, he should put it aside with the thought, ‘Whoever owns it will come and get it.’ This is the proper procedure. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If he picks up something precious or something regarded as precious, or he has it picked up, within a monastery or inside a lodging, he should put it aside with the thought, ‘Whoever owns it will fetch it.’ This is the proper procedure. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:150.0
Pali: Pācittiya 85. Vikālagāmappavesana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 85: entering an inhabited area at the wrong time 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 85: Entering a Village at the Wrong Time 

pli-tv-bu-pm:150.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu santaṁ bhikkhuṁ anāpucchāvikāle gāmaṁ paviseyya aññatra tathārūpā accāyikā karaṇīyā, pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk, when another monk is available, enters an inhabited area at the wrong time without informing him, except if there is some appropriate urgent business, he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk, when another monk is available, enters an inhabited area at the wrong time without informing him, except if there is some appropriate urgent business, he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:151.0
Pali: Pācittiya 86. Sūcighara 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 86: making an inappropriate needle case 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 86: Needle Case 

pli-tv-bu-pm:151.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aṭṭhimayaṁ vā dantamayaṁ vā visāṇamayaṁ vā sūcigharaṁ kārāpeyya, bhedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has a needle case made from bone, ivory, or horn, it is to be destroyed, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a needle case made from bone, ivory, or horn, it is to be destroyed, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:152.0
Pali: Pācittiya 87. Mañcapīṭha 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 87: making an inappropriate bed or bench 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 87: Beds and Benches 

pli-tv-bu-pm:152.1
Pali: Navaṁ pana bhikkhunā mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā kārayamānena aṭṭhaṅgulapādakaṁ kāretabbaṁ sugataṅgulena aññatra heṭṭhimāya aṭaniyā. Taṁ atikkāmayato chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is having a new bed or bench made, it is to have legs eight standard fingerbreadths long below the lowest frame. If the legs exceed that, they are to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is having a new bed or bench made, it is to have legs eight standard fingerbreadths long below the lowest frame. If the legs exceed that, they are to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:153.0
Pali: Pācittiya 88. Tūlonaddha 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 88: making an upholstered bed or bench 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 88: Upholstery 

pli-tv-bu-pm:153.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu mañcaṁ vā pīṭhaṁ vā tūlonaddhaṁ kārāpeyya, uddālanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has a bed or a bench made upholstered with cotton down, it is to be stripped, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a bed or a bench made upholstered with cotton down, it is to be stripped, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:154.0
Pali: Pācittiya 89. Nisīdana 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 89: making an oversize sitting mat 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 89: Sitting Mats 

pli-tv-bu-pm:154.1
Pali: Nisīdanaṁ pana bhikkhunā kārayamānena pamāṇikaṁ kāretabbaṁ, tatridaṁ pamāṇaṁ, dīghaso dve vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ diyaḍḍhaṁ, dasā vidatthi. Taṁ atikkāmayato chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is having a sitting mat made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: two standard handspans long and one-and-a-half wide, and a border of one handspan. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is having a sitting mat made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: two standard handspans long and one-and-a-half wide, and a border of one handspan. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:155.0
Pali: Pācittiya 90. Kaṇḍuppaṭicchādi 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 90: making an oversize itch cloth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 90: Itch Bandage 

pli-tv-bu-pm:155.1
Pali: Kaṇḍuppaṭicchādiṁ pana bhikkhunā kārayamānena pamāṇikā kāretabbā, tatridaṁ pamāṇaṁ, dīghaso catasso vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ dve vidatthiyo. Taṁ atikkāmayato chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is having an itch-covering cloth made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: four standard handspans long and two wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is having an itch-covering cloth made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: four standard handspans long and two wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:156.0
Pali: Pācittiya 91. Vassikasāṭika 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 91: making an oversize rainy-season robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 91: Rainy-Season Robes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:156.1
Pali: Vassikasāṭikaṁ pana bhikkhunā kārayamānena pamāṇikā kāretabbā, tatridaṁ pamāṇaṁ, dīghaso cha vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ aḍḍhateyyā. Taṁ atikkāmayato chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk is having a rainy-season robe made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: six standard handspans long and two-and-a-half wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk is having a rainy-season robe made, it should be made the right size. This is the right size: six standard handspans long and two-and-a-half wide. If it exceeds that, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:157.0
Pali: Pācittiya 92. Nanda 
English (brahmali, published): Confession 92: making an oversize robe 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Confession 92: Robe Size 

pli-tv-bu-pm:157.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu sugatacīvarappamāṇaṁ cīvaraṁ kārāpeyya, atirekaṁ vā, chedanakaṁ pācittiyaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk has a robe made that is the standard robe size or larger, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk has a robe made that is the standard robe measure or larger, it is to be cut down, and he commits an offense entailing confession. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:157.2
Pali: Tatridaṁ sugatassa sugatacīvarappamāṇaṁ, dīghaso nava vidatthiyo sugatavidatthiyā, tiriyaṁ cha vidatthiyo, idaṁ sugatassa sugatacīvarapamāṇanti. 
English (brahmali, published): This is the standard robe size: nine standard handspans long and six wide. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This is the standard robe measure: nine standard handspans long and six wide. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:157.3
Pali: Ratanavaggo navamo 
English (brahmali, published): The ninth subchapter on precious things is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The nineth sub-chapter on valuables is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:158.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto dvenavuti pācittiyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the ninety-two rules on confession have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the ninety-two rules on confession have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:158.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:158.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:158.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:158.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:158.6
Pali: Pācittiyā niṭṭhitā 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on offenses entailing confession is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Chapter on offenses entailing confession is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:159.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 
English (brahmali, published): The rules on acknowledgement 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Acknowledgement 

pli-tv-bu-pm:159.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto cattāro pāṭidesanīyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these four rules on acknowledgment come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these four rules on acknowledgment come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:160.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 1. Paṭhamapāṭidesanīya 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 1: receiving a nun’s food 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 1: Receiving a Nun’s Food 

pli-tv-bu-pm:160.1
Pali: Yo pana bhikkhu aññātikāya bhikkhuniyā antaragharaṁ paviṭṭhāya hatthato khādanīyaṁ vā bhojanīyaṁ vā sahatthā paṭiggahetvā khādeyya vā bhuñjeyya vā, paṭidesetabbaṁ tena bhikkhunā 
English (brahmali, published): If a monk receives fresh or cooked food directly from an unrelated nun who has entered an inhabited area, and then eats it, he must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): If a monk receives fresh or cooked food directly from an unrelated nun who has entered an inhabited area, and then eats it, he must acknowledge it: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:160.2
Pali: “gārayhaṁ, āvuso, dhammaṁ āpajjiṁ asappāyaṁ pāṭidesanīyaṁ, taṁ paṭidesemī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:161.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 2. Dutiyapāṭidesanīya 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 2: letting a nun give directions to donors 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 2: Letting a Nun Order Food 

pli-tv-bu-pm:161.1
Pali: Bhikkhū paneva kulesu nimantitā bhuñjanti, tatra ce sā bhikkhunī vosāsamānarūpā ṭhitā hoti “idha sūpaṁ detha, idha odanaṁ dethā”ti. Tehi bhikkhūhi sā bhikkhunī apasādetabbā “apasakka tāva bhagini, yāva bhikkhū bhuñjantī”ti. Ekassapi ce bhikkhuno na paṭibhāseyya taṁ bhikkhuniṁ apasādetuṁ “apasakka tāva bhagini, yāva bhikkhū bhuñjantī”ti, paṭidesetabbaṁ tehi bhikkhūhi 
English (brahmali, published): When monks eat by invitation to families, if a nun is there giving directions, saying, ‘Give bean curry here; give rice there,’ then those monks should stop her: ‘Stop, sister, while the monks are eating.’ If not even a single monk addresses that nun in this way to stop her, they must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When monks eat by invitation to families, if a nun is there giving directions, saying, “Give bean curry here; give rice there,” then those monks should stop her: “Stop, Sister, while the monks are eating.” If not even a single monk addresses that nun in this way to stop her, they must acknowledge it: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:161.2
Pali: “gārayhaṁ, āvuso, dhammaṁ āpajjimhā asappāyaṁ pāṭidesanīyaṁ, taṁ paṭidesemā”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘We have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing which is to be acknowledged. We acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘We have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing which is to be acknowledged. We acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:162.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 3. Tatiyapāṭidesanīya 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 3: receiving food from a designated family 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 3: Receiving Food From Designated Familes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:162.1
Pali: Yāni kho pana tāni sekkhasammatāni kulāni, yo pana bhikkhu tathārūpesu sekkhasammatesu kulesu pubbe animantito agilāno khādanīyaṁ vā, bhojanīyaṁ vā sahatthā paṭiggahetvā khādeyya vā, bhuñjeyya vā, paṭidesetabbaṁ tena bhikkhunā 
English (brahmali, published): There are families that are designated as ‘in training’. If a monk, without being sick and without first being invited, eats fresh or cooked food after personally receiving it from such a family, he must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): There are families that are designated as “in training”. If a monk, without being sick and without first being invited, eats fresh or cooked food after personally receiving it from such a family, he must acknowledge it: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:162.2
Pali: “gārayhaṁ, āvuso, dhammaṁ āpajjiṁ asappāyaṁ pāṭidesanīyaṁ, taṁ paṭidesemī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:163.0
Pali: Pāṭidesanīya 4. Catutthapāṭidesanīya 
English (brahmali, published): Acknowledgement 4: receiving food in a dangerous place 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acknowledgement 4: Receiving Food in a Dangerous Region 

pli-tv-bu-pm:163.1
Pali: Yāni kho pana tāni āraññakāni senāsanāni sāsaṅkasammatāni sappaṭibhayāni, yo pana bhikkhu tathārūpesu senāsanesu pubbe appaṭisaṁviditaṁ khādanīyaṁ vā, bhojanīyaṁ vā ajjhārāme sahatthā paṭiggahetvā agilāno khādeyya vā, bhuñjeyya vā, paṭidesetabbaṁ tena bhikkhunā 
English (brahmali, published): There are wilderness dwellings that are considered risky and dangerous. If a monk who is not sick, without first making an announcement about those dwellings, eats fresh or cooked food after personally receiving it inside that monastery, he must acknowledge it: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): There are wilderness dwellings that are considered risky and dangerous. If a monk who is not sick, without first making an announcement about those dwellings, eats fresh or cooked food after personally receiving it inside that monastery, he must acknowledge it: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:163.2
Pali: “gārayhaṁ, āvuso, dhammaṁ āpajjiṁ asappāyaṁ pāṭidesanīyaṁ, taṁ paṭidesemī”ti. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): ‘I have done a blameworthy and unsuitable thing that is to be acknowledged. I acknowledge it.’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:164.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto cattāro pāṭidesanīyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the four rules on acknowledgment have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the four rules on acknowledgment have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:164.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:164.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:164.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:164.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:164.6
Pali: Pāṭidesanīyā niṭṭhitā 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on offenses entailing acknowledgment is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The chapter on offenses entailing acknowledgment is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:165.0
Pali: Sekhiya 
English (brahmali, published): The rules of training 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Recitation of the Rules of Training 

pli-tv-bu-pm:165.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto sekhiyā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these rules of training come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these rules to be trained in come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:166.0.1
Pali: Chapter 1. Parimaṇḍala 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 1: evenly all around 

pli-tv-bu-pm:166.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 1. Parimaṇḍala 
English (brahmali, published): Training 1: not wearing the sarong evenly all around 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 1: Evenly All Around 

pli-tv-bu-pm:166.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalaṁ nivāsessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will wear my sarong evenly all around,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will wear my sarong evenly all around, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:167.0
Pali: Sekhiya 2. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 2: not wearing the upper robe evenly all around 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 2 

pli-tv-bu-pm:167.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalaṁ pārupissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will wear my upper robe evenly all around,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will wear my upper robe evenly all around, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:168.0
Pali: Sekhiya 3. Suppaṭicchanna 
English (brahmali, published): Training 3: not being well-covered 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 3: Well-Covered 

pli-tv-bu-pm:168.1
Pali: Suppaṭicchanno antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-covered while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will walk well-covered in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:169.0
Pali: Sekhiya 4. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 4: not being well-covered 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 4 

pli-tv-bu-pm:169.1
Pali: Suppaṭicchanno antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-covered while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will sit well-covered in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:170.0
Pali: Sekhiya 5. Susaṁvuta 
English (brahmali, published): Training 5: being unrestrained 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 5: Well-Restrained 

pli-tv-bu-pm:170.1
Pali: Susaṁvuto antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-restrained while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will walk well-restrained in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:171.0
Pali: Sekhiya 6. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 6: being unrestrained 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 6: Well-Restrained (2nd) 

pli-tv-bu-pm:171.1
Pali: Susaṁvuto antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will be well-restrained while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will sit well-restrained in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:172.0
Pali: Sekhiya 7. Okkhittacakkhu 
English (brahmali, published): Training 7: not lowering the eyes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 7: Lowered Eyes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:172.1
Pali: Okkhittacakkhu antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will lower my eyes while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will walk with lowered eyes in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:173.0
Pali: Sekhiya 8. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 8: not lowering the eyes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:173.1
Pali: Okkhittacakkhu antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will lower my eyes while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will sit with lowered eyes in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:174.0
Pali: Sekhiya 9. Ukkhittaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 9: lifting the robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 9: Lifted Robe 

pli-tv-bu-pm:174.1
Pali: Na ukkhittakāya antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lift my robe while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lift my robe while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:175.0
Pali: Sekhiya 10. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 10: lifting the robes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 10 

pli-tv-bu-pm:175.1
Pali: Na ukkhittakāya antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lift my robe while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lift my robe while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:175.2
Pali: Parimaṇḍalavaggo paṭhamo 
English (brahmali, published): The first subchapter on evenly all around is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The first sub-chapter on evenly all around is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:176.0.1
Pali: Chapter 2. Ujjagghika 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 2: laughing loudly 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training Training 11: Laughing Loudly 

pli-tv-bu-pm:176.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 11. Ujjagghika 
English (brahmali, published): Training 11: laughing loudly 

pli-tv-bu-pm:177.1
Pali: Na ujjagghikāya antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not laugh loudly while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not laugh loudly while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:178.0
Pali: Sekhiya 12. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 12: laughing loudly 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 12 

pli-tv-bu-pm:178.1
Pali: Na ujjagghikāya antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not laugh loudly while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not laugh loudly while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:179.0
Pali: Sekhiya 13. Uccasadda 
English (brahmali, published): Training 13: being noisy 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 13: Not Noisy 

pli-tv-bu-pm:179.1
Pali: Appasaddo antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not be noisy while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not be noisy while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:180.0
Pali: Sekhiya 14. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 14: being noisy 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 14 

pli-tv-bu-pm:180.1
Pali: Appasaddo antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not be noisy while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not be noisy while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:181.0
Pali: Sekhiya 15. Kāyappacālaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 15: swaying the body 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 15: Swaying 

pli-tv-bu-pm:181.1
Pali: Na kāyappacālakaṁ antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my body while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my body while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:182.0
Pali: Sekhiya 16. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 16: swaying the body 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 16 

pli-tv-bu-pm:182.1
Pali: Na kāyappacālakaṁ antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my body while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my body while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:183.0
Pali: Sekhiya 17. Bāhuppacālaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 17: swinging the arms 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 17: Swinging the Arms 

pli-tv-bu-pm:183.1
Pali: Na bāhuppacālakaṁ antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not swing my arms while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not swing my arms while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:184.0
Pali: Sekhiya 18. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 18: swinging the arms 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 18 

pli-tv-bu-pm:184.1
Pali: Na bāhuppacālakaṁ antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not swing my arms while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not swing my arms while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:185.0
Pali: Sekhiya 19. Sīsappacālaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 19: swaying the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 19: Swaying the Head 

pli-tv-bu-pm:185.1
Pali: Na sīsappacālakaṁ antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my head while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my head while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:186.0
Pali: Sekhiya 20. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 20: swaying the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 20. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:186.1
Pali: Na sīsappacālakaṁ antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not sway my head while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sway my head while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:186.2
Pali: Ujjagghikavaggo dutiyo 
English (brahmali, published): The second subchapter on laughing loudly is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sub-chapter on laughing loudly is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:187.0.1
Pali: Chapter 3. Khambhakata 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 3: hands on hips 

pli-tv-bu-pm:187.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 21. Khambhakata 
English (brahmali, published): Training 21: hands on hips 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training  21: Arms Akimbo 

pli-tv-bu-pm:187.1
Pali: Na khambhakato antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not put my hands on my hips while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not walk in inhabited areas with arms akimbo, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:188.0
Pali: Sekhiya 22. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 22: hands on hips 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 22. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:188.1
Pali: Na khambhakato antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not put my hands on my hips while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not sit in inhabited areas with arms akimbo, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:189.0
Pali: Sekhiya 23. Oguṇṭhita 
English (brahmali, published): Training 23: covering the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 23: Covering the Head 

pli-tv-bu-pm:189.1
Pali: Na oguṇṭhito antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not cover my head while walking in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not cover my head while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:190.0
Pali: Sekhiya 24. 
English (brahmali, published): Training 24: covering the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 24. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:191.1
Pali: Na oguṇṭhito antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not cover my head while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not cover my head while sitting in inhabited areas; this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:192.0
Pali: Sekhiya 25. Ukkuṭika 
English (brahmali, published): Training 25: squatting on the heels 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 25: Squatting 

pli-tv-bu-pm:192.1
Pali: Na ukkuṭikāya antaraghare gamissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not move about while squatting on my heels in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not squat on my heels while walking in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:193.0
Pali: Sekhiya 26. Pallatthika 
English (brahmali, published): Training 26: clasping the knees 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 26: Clasping Knees 

pli-tv-bu-pm:193.1
Pali: Na pallatthikāya antaraghare nisīdissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not clasp my knees while sitting in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not clasp my knees while sitting in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:194.0
Pali: Sekhiya 27. Sakkaccapaṭiggahaṇa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 27: not receiving respectfully 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 27: Receiving Respectfully 

pli-tv-bu-pm:194.1
Pali: Sakkaccaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive almsfood respectfully,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive almsfood respectfully, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:195.0
Pali: Sekhiya 28. Pattasaññīpaṭiggahaṇa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 28: not receiving with attention on the almsbowl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 28: Receiving with Attention on the Bowl 

pli-tv-bu-pm:195.1
Pali: Pattasaññī piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive almsfood with attention on the almsbowl,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive almsfood with attention on the almsbowl, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:196.0
Pali: Sekhiya 29. Samasūpakapaṭiggahaṇa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 29: not receiving in the right proportions 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 29: Receiving in Proportion 

pli-tv-bu-pm:196.1
Pali: Samasūpakaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:197.0
Pali: Sekhiya 30. Samatittika 
English (brahmali, published): Training 30: not receiving on an even level 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 30: Receiving Even Level 

pli-tv-bu-pm:197.1
Pali: Samatittikaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will receive an even level of almsfood,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive an even level of almsfood, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:198.2
Pali: Khambhakatavaggo tatiyo 
English (brahmali, published): The third subchapter on hands on hips is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The third sub-chapter on hands on hips is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:199.0.1
Pali: Chapter 4. Sakkacca 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 4: respectfully 

pli-tv-bu-pm:199.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 31. Sakkaccabhuñjana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 31: not eating respectfully 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 31: Eating Respectfully 

pli-tv-bu-pm:199.1
Pali: Sakkaccaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood respectfully,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will receive an even level of almsfood, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:200.0
Pali: Sekhiya 32. Pattasaññībhuñjana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 32: not eating with attention on the almsbowl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 32: Eating with Attention on the Bowl 

pli-tv-bu-pm:200.1
Pali: Pattasaññī piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood with attention on the almsbowl,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood respectfully, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:201.0
Pali: Sekhiya 33. Sapadāna 
English (brahmali, published): Training 33: not eating in order 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 33: Eating in Order 

pli-tv-bu-pm:201.1
Pali: Sapadānaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood in order,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood with attention on the almsbowl, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:202.0
Pali: Sekhiya 34. Samasūpaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 34: not eating in the right proportions 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 34: Even Measure of Curry 

pli-tv-bu-pm:202.1
Pali: Samasūpakaṁ piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will eat almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood in order, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:203.0
Pali: Sekhiya 35. Nathūpakata 
English (brahmali, published): Training 35: making food into a heap 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 35: Making Food into a Monument 

pli-tv-bu-pm:203.1
Pali: Na thūpakato omadditvā piṇḍapātaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat almsfood after making a heap,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will eat almsfood with the right proportion of bean curry, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:204.0
Pali: Sekhiya 36. Odanappaṭicchādana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 36: covering with rice 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 36: Covering with Rice 

pli-tv-bu-pm:204.1
Pali: Na sūpaṁ vā byañjanaṁ vā odanena paṭicchādessāmi bhiyyokamyataṁ upādāyāti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not cover my curries with rice because I want more,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat almsfood picking from a heap, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:205.0
Pali: Sekhiya 37. Sūpodanaviññatti 
English (brahmali, published): Training 37: requesting rice and bean curry 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 37: Asking for Rice and Curry 

pli-tv-bu-pm:205.1
Pali: Na sūpaṁ vā odanaṁ vā agilāno attano atthāya viññāpetvā bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not request bean curry or rice for myself and then eat it,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not cover my curries with rice because I want more, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:206.0
Pali: Sekhiya 38. Ujjhānasaññī 
English (brahmali, published): Training 38: finding fault 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 38: Finding Fault 

pli-tv-bu-pm:206.1
Pali: Na ujjhānasaññī paresaṁ pattaṁ olokessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not look at another’s almsbowl finding fault,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not ask for bean curry or rice for myself and then eat it, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:207.0
Pali: Sekhiya 39. Kabaḷa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 39: making an overlarge mouthful 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 39: Overlarge Mouthful 

pli-tv-bu-pm:207.1
Pali: Nātimahantaṁ kabaḷaṁ karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not make mouthfuls that are too large,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not look at anothers almsbowl finding fault, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:208.0
Pali: Sekhiya 40. Ālopa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 40: not making rounded mouthfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Round Mouthful 

pli-tv-bu-pm:208.1
Pali: Parimaṇḍalaṁ ālopaṁ karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will make rounded mouthfuls,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not make a mouthful thats too large, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:208.2
Pali: Sakkaccavaggo catuttho 
English (brahmali, published): The fourth subchapter on respectfully is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fourth sub-chapter on respectfully is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:209.0.1
Pali: Chapter 5. Kabaḷa 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 5: mouthfuls 

pli-tv-bu-pm:209.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 41. Anāhaṭa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 41: opening the mouth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 41: Without Bringing 

pli-tv-bu-pm:209.1
Pali: Na anāhaṭe kabaḷe mukhadvāraṁ vivarissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not open my mouth without bringing a mouthful to it,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will make rounded mouthfuls, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:210.0
Pali: Sekhiya 42. Bhuñjamāna 
English (brahmali, published): Training 42: putting whole hand in mouth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 42: Whole Hand 

pli-tv-bu-pm:210.1
Pali: Na bhuñjamāno sabbahatthaṁ mukhe pakkhipissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not put my whole hand in my mouth while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not put my whole hand in my mouth while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:211.0
Pali: Sekhiya 43. Sakabaḷa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 43: speaking with food in mouth 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 43: Mouth Full 

pli-tv-bu-pm:211.1
Pali: Na sakabaḷena mukhena byāharissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not speak with food in my mouth,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not speak with food in my mouth, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:212.0
Pali: Sekhiya 44. Piṇḍukkhepaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 44: eating from lifted mouthfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 44: Lifted Lump 

pli-tv-bu-pm:212.1
Pali: Na piṇḍukkhepakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat from a lifted ball of food,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat from a lifted ball of food, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:213.0
Pali: Sekhiya 45. Kabaḷāvacchedaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 45: breaking up mouthfuls 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 45: Breaking Lumps 

pli-tv-bu-pm:213.1
Pali: Na kabaḷāvacchedakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat breaking up mouthfuls,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat breaking up a mouthful, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:214.0
Pali: Sekhiya 46. Avagaṇḍakāraka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 46: stuffing the cheeks 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 46: Stuffing Cheeks 

pli-tv-bu-pm:214.1
Pali: Na avagaṇḍakārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat stuffing my cheeks,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat stuffing my cheeks, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:215.0
Pali: Sekhiya 47. Hatthaniddhunaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 47: shaking the hand 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 47: Shaking the Hand 

pli-tv-bu-pm:215.1
Pali: Na hatthaniddhunakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat shaking my hand,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat shaking my hand, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:216.0
Pali: Sekhiya 48. Sitthāvakāraka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 48: scattering rice 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 48: Scattering Rice 

pli-tv-bu-pm:216.1
Pali: Na sitthāvakārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat scattering rice,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not scatter rice while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:217.0
Pali: Sekhiya 49. Jivhānicchāraka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 49: sticking out the tongue 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 49: Poking the Tongue 

pli-tv-bu-pm:217.1
Pali: Na jivhānicchārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not eat sticking out my tongue,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not eat sticking out my tongue, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:218.0
Pali: Sekhiya 50. Capucapukāraka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 50: chomping 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 50: Chomping 

pli-tv-bu-pm:218.1
Pali: Na capucapukārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not make a chomping sound while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not make a chomping sound while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:218.2
Pali: Kabaḷavaggo pañcamo 
English (brahmali, published): The fifth subchapter on mouthfuls is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The fifth sub-chapter on mouthfuls is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:219.0.1
Pali: Chapter 6. Surusuru 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 6: slurping 

pli-tv-bu-pm:219.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 51. Surusurukāraka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 51: slurping 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 51: Slurping 

pli-tv-bu-pm:219.1
Pali: Na surusurukārakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not slurp while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not slurp while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:220.0
Pali: Sekhiya 52. Hatthanillehaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 52: licking the hand 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 52: Licking the Hands 

pli-tv-bu-pm:220.1
Pali: Na hatthanillehakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lick my hand while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lick my hands while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:221.0
Pali: Sekhiya 53. Pattanillehaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 53: licking the almsbowl 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 53: Licking the Bowl 

pli-tv-bu-pm:221.1
Pali: Na pattanillehakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lick my almsbowl while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lick my almsbowl while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:222.0
Pali: Sekhiya 54. Oṭṭhanillehaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 54: licking the lips 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 54: Licking the Lips 

pli-tv-bu-pm:222.1
Pali: Na oṭṭhanillehakaṁ bhuñjissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not lick my lips while eating,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not lick my lips while eating, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:223.0
Pali: Sekhiya 55. Sāmisa 
English (brahmali, published): Training 55: receiving with soiled hand 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 55: Soiling 

pli-tv-bu-pm:223.1
Pali: Na sāmisena hatthena pānīyathālakaṁ paṭiggahessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not receive the drinking-water vessel with a hand soiled with food,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not receive the drinking-water vessel with a hand soiled with food, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:224.0
Pali: Sekhiya 56. Sasitthaka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 56: discarding waste water with rice 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 56: Washing Water with Rice 

pli-tv-bu-pm:224.1
Pali: Na sasitthakaṁ pattadhovanaṁ antaraghare chaḍḍessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not discard bowl-washing water containing rice in inhabited areas,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not discard bowl-washing water containing rice in inhabited areas, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:225.0
Pali: Sekhiya 57. Chattapāṇi 
English (brahmali, published): Training 57: holding a sunshade 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 57: Holding a Sunshade 

pli-tv-bu-pm:225.1
Pali: Na chattapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a sunshade who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a sunshade who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:226.0
Pali: Sekhiya 58. Daṇḍapāṇi 
English (brahmali, published): Training 58: holding a staff 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 58: Holding a staff 

pli-tv-bu-pm:226.1
Pali: Na daṇḍapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a staff who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a staff who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:227.0
Pali: Sekhiya 59. Satthapāṇi 
English (brahmali, published): Training 59: holding a knife 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 59: Holding a Knife 

pli-tv-bu-pm:227.1
Pali: Na satthapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a knife who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a knife who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:228.0
Pali: Sekhiya 60. Āvudhapāṇi 
English (brahmali, published): Training 60: holding a weapon 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 60: Holding a Weapon 

pli-tv-bu-pm:228.1
Pali: Na āvudhapāṇissa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a weapon who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone holding a weapon who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:228.2
Pali: Surusuruvaggo chaṭṭho 
English (brahmali, published): The sixth subchapter on slurping is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The sixth sub-chapter on slurping is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:229.0.1
Pali: Chapter 7. Pāduka 
English (brahmali, published): Chapter 7: shoes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:229.0.2
Pali: Sekhiya 61. Pāduka 
English (brahmali, published): Training 61: wearing shoes 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 61: Shoes 

pli-tv-bu-pm:229.1
Pali: Na pādukāruḷhassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing shoes who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing shoes who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:230.0
Pali: Sekhiya 62. Upāhana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 62: wearing sandals 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 62: Sandals 

pli-tv-bu-pm:230.1
Pali: Na upāhanāruḷhassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing sandals who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing sandals who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:231.0
Pali: Sekhiya 63. Yāna 
English (brahmali, published): Training 63: sitting in a vehicle 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 63: Vehicle 

pli-tv-bu-pm:231.1
Pali: Na yānagatassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone in a vehicle who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone in a vehicle who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:232.0
Pali: Sekhiya 64. Sayana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 64: lying down 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 64: Lying Down 

pli-tv-bu-pm:232.1
Pali: Na sayanagatassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone lying down who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone lying down who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:233.0
Pali: Sekhiya 65. Pallatthika 
English (brahmali, published): Training 65: clasping the knees 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 65: Clasping Knees 

pli-tv-bu-pm:233.1
Pali: Na pallatthikāya nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone who is seated clasping their knees and who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone who is seated clasping their knees and who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:234.0
Pali: Sekhiya 66. Veṭhita 
English (brahmali, published): Training 66: wearing a headdress 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 66: Headdresses 

pli-tv-bu-pm:234.1
Pali: Na veṭhitasīsassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone with a headdress who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone wearing a headdress who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:235.0
Pali: Sekhiya 67. Oguṇṭhita 
English (brahmali, published): Training 67: covering the head 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 67: Covering the Head 

pli-tv-bu-pm:235.1
Pali: Na oguṇṭhitasīsassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone with a covered head who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching to anyone with a covered head who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:236.0
Pali: Sekhiya 68. Chamā 
English (brahmali, published): Training 68: sitting on the ground 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 68: On the Ground 

pli-tv-bu-pm:236.1
Pali: Na chamāyaṁ nisīditvā āsane nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while sitting on the ground to anyone sitting on a seat who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while sitting on the ground to anyone sitting on a seat who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:237.0
Pali: Sekhiya 69. Nīcāsana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 69: sitting on a low seat 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 69: Low Seats 

pli-tv-bu-pm:237.1
Pali: Na nīce āsane nisīditvā ucce āsane nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while sitting on a low seat to anyone sitting on a high seat who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while sitting on a low seat to anyone sitting on a high seat who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:238.0
Pali: Sekhiya 70. Ṭhita 
English (brahmali, published): Training 70: standing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 70: Standing 

pli-tv-bu-pm:238.1
Pali: Na ṭhito nisinnassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while standing to anyone sitting who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while standing to anyone sitting who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:239.0
Pali: Sekhiya 71. Pacchatogamana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 71: walking behind 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 71: Walking Behind 

pli-tv-bu-pm:239.1
Pali: Na pacchato gacchanto purato gacchantassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching to anyone walking in front of me who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while walking behind to anyone walking in front who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:240.0
Pali: Sekhiya 72. Uppathenagamana 
English (brahmali, published): Training 72: walking next to the path 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 72: Off the Path 

pli-tv-bu-pm:240.1
Pali: Na uppathena gacchanto pathena gacchantassa agilānassa dhammaṁ desessāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘I will not give a teaching while walking next to the path to anyone walking on the path who is not sick,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): I will not give a teaching while walking next to the path to anyone walking on the path who is not sick, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:241.0
Pali: Sekhiya 73. Ṭhitouccāra 
English (brahmali, published): Training 73: defecating while standing 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 73: While Standing 

pli-tv-bu-pm:241.1
Pali: Na ṭhito agilāno uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not defecate or urinate while standing,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not defecate or urinate while standing, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:242.0
Pali: Sekhiya 74. Hariteuccāra 
English (brahmali, published): Training 74: defecating on cultivated plants 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 74: On Plants 

pli-tv-bu-pm:242.1
Pali: Na harite agilāno uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā kheḷaṁ vā karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit on cultivated plants,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit on cultivated plants, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:243.0
Pali: Sekhiya 75. Udakeuccāra 
English (brahmali, published): Training 75: defecating in water 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Training 75: In Water 

pli-tv-bu-pm:243.1
Pali: Na udake agilāno uccāraṁ vā passāvaṁ vā kheḷaṁ vā karissāmīti sikkhā karaṇīyā. 
English (brahmali, published): ‘When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit in water,’ this is how you should train. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): When not sick, I will not defecate, urinate, or spit in water, this is how you should train. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:243.2
Pali: Pādukavaggo sattamo 
English (brahmali, published): The seventh subchapter on shoes is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The seventh sub-chapter on shoes is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:244.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto sekhiyā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the rules of training have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the rules to be trained in have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:244.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:244.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:244.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:244.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:244.6
Pali: Sekhiyā niṭṭhitā 
English (brahmali, published): The chapter on training is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The chapter on training is finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:245.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamathā 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 

pli-tv-bu-pm:245.1
Pali: Ime kho panāyasmanto satta adhikaraṇasamathā dhammā uddesaṁ āgacchanti. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, these seven principles for the settling of legal issues come up for recitation. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, these seven principles for the settling of legal issues come up for recitation. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:246.1
Pali: Uppannuppannānaṁ adhikaraṇānaṁ samathāya vūpasamāya: 
English (brahmali, published): For the settling and resolving of legal issues whenever they arise there is: 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): For the settling and resolving of legal issues whenever they arise there is: 

pli-tv-bu-pm:247.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 1 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 1 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 1 

pli-tv-bu-pm:247.1
Pali: Sammukhāvinayo dātabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): Resolution face-to-face to be applied. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Resolution face-to-face to be applied; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:248.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 2 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 2 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 2 

pli-tv-bu-pm:248.1
Pali: Sativinayo dātabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): Resolution through recollection to be granted. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Resolution through recollection to be granted; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:249.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 3 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 3 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 3 

pli-tv-bu-pm:249.1
Pali: Amūḷhavinayo dātabbo. 
English (brahmali, published): Resolution because of past insanity to be granted. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Resolution because of past insanity to be granted; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:250.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 4 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 4 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 4 

pli-tv-bu-pm:250.1
Pali: Paṭiññāya kāretabbaṁ. 
English (brahmali, published): Acting according to what has been admitted. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Acting according to what has been admitted; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:251.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 5 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 5 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 5 

pli-tv-bu-pm:251.1
Pali: Yebhuyyasikā. 
English (brahmali, published): Majority decision. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Majority decision; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:252.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 6 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 6 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 6 

pli-tv-bu-pm:252.1
Pali: Tassapāpiyasikā. 
English (brahmali, published): Further penalty. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Further penalty; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:253.0
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamatha 7 
English (brahmali, published): The settling of legal issues 7 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Settling Legal Issues 7 

pli-tv-bu-pm:253.1
Pali: Tiṇavatthārakoti. 
English (brahmali, published): Covering over as if with grass. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Covering over as if with grass. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:254.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhā kho āyasmanto satta adhikaraṇasamathā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:254.2
Pali: Tatthāyasmante pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this I ask you, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:254.3
Pali: dutiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A second time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:254.4
Pali: tatiyampi pucchāmi, kaccittha parisuddhā, 
English (brahmali, published): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): A third time I ask, ‘Are you pure in this?’ 

pli-tv-bu-pm:254.5
Pali: parisuddhetthāyasmanto, tasmā tuṇhī, evametaṁ dhārayāmīti. 
English (brahmali, published): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): You are pure in this and therefore silent. I will remember it thus. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:254.6
Pali: Adhikaraṇasamathā niṭṭhitā 
English (brahmali, published): The seven principles for the settling of legal issues are finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The seven principles for the settling of legal issues are finished. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.1
Pali: Uddiṭṭhaṁ kho āyasmanto nidānaṁ, 
English (brahmali, published): Venerables, the introduction has been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Venerables, the introduction has been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.2
Pali: uddiṭṭhā cattāro pārājikā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the four rules on expulsion have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the four rules on expulsion have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.3
Pali: uddiṭṭhā terasa saṅghādisesā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the thirteen rules on suspension have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the thirteen rules on suspension have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.4
Pali: uddiṭṭhā dve aniyatā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the two undetermined rules have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the two undetermined rules have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.5
Pali: uddiṭṭhā tiṁsa nissaggiyā pācittiyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the thirty rules on relinquishment and confession have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.6
Pali: uddiṭṭhā dvenavuti pācittiyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the ninety-two rules on confession have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the ninety-two rules on confession have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.7
Pali: uddiṭṭhā cattāro pāṭidesanīyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the four rules on acknowledgment have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the four rules on acknowledgment have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.8
Pali: uddiṭṭhā sekhiyā dhammā, 
English (brahmali, published): the rules of training have been recited; 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the rules to be trained in have been recited; 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.9
Pali: uddiṭṭhā satta adhikaraṇasamathā dhammā. 
English (brahmali, published): the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): the seven principles for the settling of legal issues have been recited. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.10
Pali: Ettakaṁ tassa bhagavato suttāgataṁ suttapariyāpannaṁ anvaddhamāsaṁ uddesaṁ āgacchati. 
English (brahmali, published): This much has come down and is included in the Monastic Code of the Buddha and comes up for recitation every half-month. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): This much has come down and is included in the Monastic Code of the Buddha and comes up for recitation every half-month. 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.11
Pali: Tattha sabbeheva samaggehi sammodamānehi avivadamānehi sikkhitabbanti. 
English (brahmali, published): In regard to this everyone should train in unity, in concord, without dispute.” 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): In regard to this everyone should train in unity, in concord, without dispute.” 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.12
Pali: Vitthāruddeso pañcamo. 
English (brahmali, published): The fifth recitation, in detail, is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The recitation of the Conclusion is finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.13
Pali: Bhikkhupātimokkhaṁ niṭṭhitaṁ 
English (brahmali, published): The Monastic Code for monks is finished. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): The Monks’ rules are finished 

pli-tv-bu-pm:255.14
Pali: Namo tassa bhagavato arahato sammāsambuddhassa 
English (brahmali, published): Homage to the Buddha, the Perfected One, the fully Awakened One. 
English (pasanna, origin/unpublished): Homage to the Buddha, the Perfected One, the fully Awakened One 

